VM Controller / Time Line Tab
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

|image1|

The VM Virtual Controller includes a Time Line feature that can be used
to review and replay the simulation at any point. The VM controller can
be activated from the View toolbar by selecting the button shown circled
in the toolbar above. Select the button a second time to either hide the
controller window or to restore a controller window that has been
minimized. This window can also be controlled by selecting
Simulation»Controller from the menu bar. Once the VM Controller window
is active, select the Time Line tab to view a time graph of the process.

The time-scale listed horizontally at the top of the window represents
the run time of the process. The pale blue vertical bar shows the moment
in time that the Simulation window is currently showing. The light gray
vertical line marks the end of the simulation. When the simulation is
paused, you can use the up and down arrow keys or the mouse wheel to
adjust the time-scale to see more or less detail. You can also zoom in
to see more detail by holding the shift key down and selecting the range
of interest with the left mouse button. The Simulation»Camera»Fit (Ctrl
Space) function will fit the entire process within the Time Line window.
Use the left and right arrow keys, Ctrl Home and Ctrl End keys, or the
horizontal scroll bar to move the time-scale left and right. The
Simulation»Camera»Center (Ctrl Shift Space) function will center the
time-scale at the current selected time. Changes to the time-scale can
be undone and redone using the Ctrl Z and Ctrl Y keys.

When the simulation is paused, you can click with the left mouse button
anywhere within the Time Line to see, in the Simulation window, the
state of the simulation at that moment in time. Hold the left mouse
button down and drag the mouse left and right to replay the simulation
forwards and backwards in time. Click with the right mouse button
anywhere within the window to see a pop-up context menu. The
“\ **Synchronize**\ ” choice will synchronize the selected moment in the
Time Line display with the Simulation window and any of the other
tracing windows. Double-clicking in the Time Line display synchronizes
at that point. The “\ **Play from here**\ ” choice will replay the
simulation from the selected point, using the continuous animation
control setting.

Tooltip information describes the collision, overtravel, tool, etcetera,
event of interest under the cursor. Tooltips identify the start and
ending time of the event as well as other pertinent information. For
example, Spindle tooltips indicate the spindle speed and direction of
rotation.

The right-mouse pop-up context menu "Show"" choice can be used to
select the type of information to be shown in the Time Line window, in
the form of horizontal colored bars:

-  **Channel data**: provided channel creation, deletion, activation,
   deactivation, starvation, synchronization points, idle and wait time.

-  **Collisions**: When MRS (material removal simulation) is active, all
   collisions involving the in-process stock (e.g., tool rapids into
   stock) are identified by horizontal amber bars at the top edge of the
   window; the left edge of the amber bar marks the start of the motion
   where a collision occurs and the corresponding right edge marks the
   start of the next motion where the in-process stock is again
   collision free.  Probe touch events are indicated by yellow markers.
   All other non in-process stock related collisions are identified by
   a red bar; the left edge of the red bar marks the moment in time
   where a collision occurs and the corresponding right edge marks the
   point where the simulation is again collision free.

-  **Operation names**: A solid horizontal bar indicates a named
   operation and vertical markers indicate operation boundaries,
   provided that OPNAME commands are coded.

-  **Coolant events**: A solid horizontal blue bar indicates when any
   type of coolant is active. Vertical markers indicate a change in
   coolant state.

-  **Spindle events**: A solid horizontal yellow bar indicates when the
   spindle is rotating. Vertical markers indicate a change in spindle
   state.

-  **Tool usage**: A solid horizontal bar indicates when a tool is
   loaded. The color of the bar matches the “cut color” of the tool.
   Vertical markers indicate a tool change.

-  **Head usage**: A solid orange horizontal bar indicates when a head
   is loaded. Vertical markers indicate a head change.

-  **Axes overtravel**: Motion axes overtravel conditions are
   individually identified by horizontal light purple bars drawn level
   with the axis on which an overtravel occurs; the left edge of the
   light purple bar marks the moment in time where an overtravel occurs
   and the corresponding right edge marks the point where the axis is
   once again within travel.

-  **Channel extra data**: Provide channel data for channel that are
   created by the user for other purpose such as tool changer mechanism
   or UHF devices.

The right mouse pop-up context menu "Next/Previous" choice can be used
to search forwards and backwards in time to the next collision, probe
touch, tool change, head change or overtravel event. The F3 and Shift F3
keys cause the Time Line to advance and synchronize to the next or
previous event, or optionally to the end or beginning of the process if
there are no other events of the type being searched.

When running GENER, the right mouse pop-up context menu "Display feed
optimization" choice toggles between a normal view as described above
and a view showing the results of Smart-FEED optimizations. When in the
feed optimization view, the right mouse pop-up context menu "Show"
choice can be used to select the type of information to be shown in the
Time Line window, in the form of graphs:

-  **Volume**: The volume of material removed.
-  **MRR and Opt MRR**: The material removal rate before and after
   optimization.
-  **Feed and Opt Feed**: The tool velocity before and after
   optimization.

The Simulation»Options dialog Time Line tab provides the following
display options: the ability to animate (i.e., smooth) transitions when
moving from one moment in time to another; coloring options; F3/Shift_F3
search option; tooltip enable/disable option; and an optional upper
limit on RAM consumed by Time Line (if memory limitations become an
issue).

The Time Line window horizontal scroll bar shows a miniature of the
entire process, with the portion currently visible in the Time Line view
highlighted. We call this the “Time Line Miniature” or TLM for short.
The TLM box can be dragged and manipulated in the same way as any
horizontal scrollbar thumb control. In addition, holding the SHIFT key
before left clicking and then dragging in the TLM (i.e., selecting a
region in the horizontal bar) will set the main Time Line view to the
selected time range.

The TLM shows key information from the main Time Line whether selected
for display or not. This includes object collisions, MRS collisions,
over travels and tool changes.

The TLM also features an easy access toolbar at the bottom-left,
providing quick access to the following features of the Time Line:

-  **Undo/Redo** undo or reapply Time Line zoom and pan changes
-  **Fit** to zoom out the Time Line to view the entire process
-  **Find previous/next** to search for the next occurrence of selected
   search target

`VM Controller Window <vmcontroller.html>`__

.. |image1| image:: ./media/5188f66890d11686bda4471293333b536fb55b60.bmp

