VM Controller / Fixture Compensation Tab
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

|image1|

This tab provides control of fixture compensation (also known as work
piece compensation). It is important to accurately set appropriate
fixture compensation amounts if non-zero fixture compensation amounts
will be used at the machine.

Fixture compensation offsets are identified by an integer ID number
ranging from 1 up to the number of different offsets available on the
CNC. For example, on a CNC with G54 through G59 codes defining fixture
compensation, ID number 1 would represent G54, ID number 2 would
represent G55, and so on, up to ID number 6 for G59. Select the Add
button to define the compensation amounts for a particular ID. Fixture
compensation is defined by the control emulator or post-processor, not
the model. If fixture compensation is not defined in the CE or PP, then
the Add button will not be available.

The offset amounts are entered and listed in the units specified in the
Unit drop-down list. Double-click on an axis entry to change its value.
Use the Tab and Shift Tab keys to quickly move between entries. Press
the Set button to set the offset values of the selected ID lines to the
current Axes positions (as set via the Axes tab). Press the Zero button
to quickly zero the offset values of the selected ID lines. You can
completely remove an offset ID by selecting the entire line and pressing
the Delete key.

By default, only the primary linear axes are listed. Select the Advanced
button if it is necessary to choose other axes that can be offset using
fixture compensation on the CNC. For example, if the CNC has the ability
to offset rotary axes, you should select the Advanced button, choose the
rotary axis from the list of available axes, and then press the center
Add button to include that rotary axis in the list of axes that can be
compensated. You can later disable compensation for any axis other than
a primary linear, by first selecting it in the list of axes in use and
then pressing the center Remove button (the center button label
dynamically changes between Add and Remove depending on the axis
selected).

Base compensation is always available, whether fixture compensation is
supported or not. The base compensation amounts are added to the axes
position, regardless of the fixture compensation state in effect on the
CNC. Base compensation should to be used to handle the case where the
machine operator must manually reset the zero point of the machine to
match some reference point on the fixture or part. This is common on
older controls that do not have fixture compensation abilities.

The currently active fixture compensation ID can be seen in simulation
window heads-up display by activating the “Active Compensations” check
box in the Simulation»Display dialog (Ctrl Alt D shortcut).

Fixture compensation data is automatically saved in the verification
setup (.vsw) file when the program is completed. This setup file will be
reused on subsequent runs to quickly reestablish the workpiece
compensation settings necessary for an accurate simulation.

`VM Controller Window <vmcontroller.html>`__

.. |image1| image:: ./media/33f2633344756ef1302e2125d173dc39b44613d7.bmp

