Macro Manager
-------------

The Macro Manager Dialog provides debugger functionality to enable or
disable any macro, to enable or disable the tracing of a macro when
“stepping”, as well as to view or change the settings of system
variables that enable or disable the processing of startup and shutdown
macros (these variables are grayed out if their corresponding
startup/shutdown macros are not defined). Enabling or disabling macros
and/or changing the macro variable settings may affect the results of
the control emulator. Changing the trace settings does not affect the
results of the control emulator.

The Macro Manager also has checkbox options to hide or show composite
control emulator component macros that do not belong to the currently
active component, macros belonging to the current control emulator and
Virtual Machine macros associated with the machine model. Hiding or
showing macros does not affect the results of the control emulator.

Changes made in the Macro Manager are applicable for the current CERUN
session only. They will be remembered on a Run»Restart but not on a
File»NewJob, File»LoadJob or following a File»Exit.

When debugging a composite control emulator with multiple independent
kernels, macros from different kernels can be differentiated from each
other by the control emulator name, which will appear in parentheses
beside the macro name.

|image1|

**Enable/Disable Macro Variables**

-  You can disable the cycle event macro by clearing the $CYCMAC check
   box. This is equivalent to setting the $CYCMAC variable in a macro to
   $FALSE. When a macro sets $CYCMAC=$TRUE, then this box will appear as
   checked.
-  You can disable the motion event macro by clearing the $MTNMAC check
   box. The $MTNMAC variable can also be set from within a macro.
-  You can disable the various CE startup and shutdown macros by
   clearing the $CE... check boxs. These variables can also be set from
   within a macro.
-  You can disable the pre-processor identification macro by clearing
   the $CEPP check box. The $CEPP variable can also be set from within a
   macro.

**Show/Hide Macro Filters**

Filters can help to reduce the number of macros listed in the window to
a particular group. This will help to examine the list in case there is
a large number of macros active in the session.

**Enable/Disable Macro Execution**

The check box in the ‘Execute’ column is used to disable-enable
execution of any listed macro.

**Enable/Disable Macro Tracing**

The check box in the ‘Trace’ column is used to disable-enable tracing of
a given macro in the Macro Listing window. When tracing of a particular
macro is disabled, it will be not possible to Step-In, ..., and examine
how the macro executes. Tracing status of a macro does not affect its
execution flow.

**Close button**

Close the macro list dialog

.. |image1| image:: ./media/81f52c1f8ade561e2dfe9093490e3e08211f34a7.gif

