GENER Overview
==============

For a general understanding of how post-processing works, it is
important to first discuss the software that is used to create the
specific files associated with, or needed for post-processing.

**Computer Aided Drafting And Design (CAD)**

The first software application that is used in the post-processing
journey is Computer Aided Drafting and Design (CAD). A design engineer
uses CAD software to create a part drawing, containing all features and
dimensions required to manufacture a part. Some of the more common
drawing file extensions are IGES, DXF and STEP to name a few.

**Computer Aided Manufacturing (CAM)**

Computer Aided Manufacturing (CAM) evolved from the need to manufacture
parts using numerically controlled machine tools. Once the CAD drawing
is complete, it can be imported into the CAM software for further use.
Using the various functions within the CAM software, the programmer
selects various lines, circles, surfaces or other entities from the
imported CAD drawing and then develops cutting sequences, or tool paths,
that simulate actual machining of those entities.

**Cutter Location File (CL file)**

For most CAM applications, the tool path that is generated for each
cutting sequence is placed into a file in a specific order and syntax,
almost like a structured language. This file is called a Cutter Location
Data (CLDATA) File, or CL file for short. It contains various APT-like
commands, as well as X, Y, Z coordinate values, and in the case of four
and five axes machines, will also contain tool vector I, J, K values
used to determine the angle of the tool in relation to the part. APT,
CL, CLD, CLS, NCI and NCL are some of the more common CL file extensions
you might see.

**Post-Processing and the CL file**

The most important file required by CAM-POST GENER is the previously
discussed CL file. CAMPOST GENER reads each statement or command
contained within the CL file and post-processes or translates each of
those statements or commands into CNC machine code. This CNC machine
code (also referred to as G-Code output) is created based on the content
of the CL file and in combination with the settings within the QUEST
post-processor file.

When a command from the CL file is incorrect, or certain settings have
not been selected in the QUEST post-processor file, GENER will output
error messages indicating that it either does not recognize a particular
CL file statement or command, or that it cannot create output because a
particular function has not been selected in QUEST. It is important to
understand that CAM-POST will always output correct G-code as long as
the CL file statements and syntax are correct.


