Adding Physical Entities to the Model
-------------------------------------

Once you have defined the kinematics framework of your machine, you are
now ready to add physical entities such as tables, heads, bases, etc.
These objects give substance to your model so it can be seen, but more
importantly, it is the physical entities of the model on which collision
testing is performed.

Entities are attached to axes or other entities in the same way that
axes are attached to each other and the machine. Objects that are
attached to moving axes will move when that axis moves. Sometimes, a
physical entity on the machine will have some of its parts attached to
one axis and the remainder attached to another axis. For example, a
rotary table base would be attached to one axis (e.g., a linear axis),
while the table itself would be attached to the rotary axis (so it
rotates when the rotary axis moves). Another example: An X-axis table
would be attached to the X-axis, but the guide-ways and base would be
attached to the world.

All entities are located in terms of an XYZ offset from their parent
object. An offset of zero would place the entity origin at the same
position as the parent object’s origin. In the examples to this point,
the axes have been defined at the machine origin. Doing so allows us to
define geometry in terms of the machine coordinate frame. If machine
dimensions are relative to some other position, then you should create a
“Reference Axis” attached to the “Machine01” object and define the
offset to the reference point used by the machine tool builder. All
other objects should then be defined in the tree leading out from the
reference axis.

.. image:: ../../../media/quest_vm_construct_entities.png
   :height: 0.583in
   :class: image-lowered

The following entity types can be created using the
Simulation»Construct Entity menu bar selection (and also from the
buttons on the VM Construct toolbar shown circled above):

-  A **Cube** is a box defined by its width, length and height.

-  A **Cylinder** is defined by a length and radius at each end.

-  A **Cone** is also defined by a length and radius at each end.

-  A **Sphere** is defined by a radius.

-  A **Revolved** is a 2D profile shape revolved about its local Z-axis.

-  An **Extruded** is a 2D profile shape extruded along its local
   Z-axis.

-  A **Mesh** is an STL object imported from the CAD/CAM system.

-  A **Picture** is a bitmap image.

All entities share some common parameters (a description of entity
parameters can be found :ref:`here<sim_construct_entity_common>`).

Do the following to add a base, X table and C rotary table entities to
the kinematics model constructed in the previous section:

.. image:: ../../../media/quest_base.png
   :width: 2.942in
   :align: right

**Step 1: Create the base**

1. Select “Machine01” in the model navigator so that the
   base will be defined attached to the machine.

2. Select *Simulation»Construct Entity»Cube*.

3. Type the following:

   ::

           –1500 Enter  –500 Enter    0 Enter
            3000 Enter  1000 Enter  200 Enter

4. The Cube properties dialog will then appear. Type “Base” as the
   entity name.

5. Select the Material button and select or create a material color
   (e.g., black plastic looks nice for a base).

6. Press OK.

.. image:: ../../../media/quest_shroud.png
   :width: 2.942in
   :align: right

**Step 2: Create the sliding table**

1. Select “X Axis” in the model navigator so that the sliding table will
   be defined attached to the X-axis of the machine. It will then move
   when the X-axis moves.

2. Select *Simulation»Construct Entity»Cube*.

3. Type the following:

   ::

           –1550 Enter  –550 Enter  200 Enter
            3100 Enter  1100 Enter   50 Enter

4. Type “Shroud” as the entity name.

5. Select the Material button and select or create a material color
   (e.g., silver has a nice metallic look).

6. Press OK.

.. image:: ../../../media/quest_tabletop.png
   :width: 2.942in
   :align: right

**Step 3: Create the rotary table**

1. Select “C Table Axis” in the model navigator so that the rotary table
   will be defined attached to the C-axis. It will then move when the
   C-axis moves (and when the X-axis moves because C is attached to X).

2. Select *Simulation»Construct Entity»Cylinder*.

3. Type the following:

   ::

             0 Enter   0 Enter  250 Enter
           500 Enter  50 Enter

4. Type “TableTop” as the entity name.

5. Select the Material button and select or create a material color
   (e.g., pewter).

6. Press OK.

Select File»Generate (Ctrl G) to generate a production ready version of
the model.

After these steps are complete, the model and navigator should look like
the image shown below.

.. image:: ../../../media/quest_sample.png
   :width: 5.681in
   :align: center

\
