Basic Model Requirements
------------------------

It is a common but true dictum that the accuracy of a result depends on
the accuracy of the data used to determine the result (or more plainly:
garbage in, garbage out). Using a rough approximation of the machine
work envelope will reduce the effectiveness of the simulation. There is
little comfort knowing that a collision probably did not occur. However,
using a rough approximation of the machine enclosure (or omitting it
entirely) is perfectly valid, if you do not intend to test for
collisions against the roughly defined object.

The first step is to know what to model and what not to model. The
answer is quite simple:

-  **Only model components of the machine that are to be collision
   tested.**

You should carefully and accurately model the table and any devices that
are normally attached to the table. You should model the spindle face
and any devices that are attached to it if they can get in the way of
the work. If your work area is enclosed and you are concerned with
collisions, then you should model this area too. Modeling the tool
changer, the stand-alone power supply, chip conveyor, and so on bring a
certain degree satisfaction, but they add nothing to the accuracy of the
result you are trying to achieve, which is to detect collisions.

VM models are built up from components, all attached together on a
kinematics chain. Simple rectangular, cylindrical, conical, spherical,
revolved and swept volume components can be created with VMâ€™s
construction features. Components can also be imported as STL objects
from a CAD system. VM is not a CAD system; VM relies on your CAD system
to prepare model components, which can then be imported as STL files.

Curved components are represented in VM as a series of closely meshed
triangles. Even simple objects, such as a cube, are built of many
triangles (a cube requires 12). The more triangles a component is
constructed with, the longer it will take for VM to perform collision
testing, and also the longer it will take for the component to be drawn
in the simulation windows. This leads us to the next important maxim:

-  **Use reasonably coarse faceting for cylindrical and STL
   components.**

Models with hundreds of thousands of triangular facets will have poor
rendering (drawing) performance and might have poor collision
performance. VM surrounds each component with a simplified box that it
uses in a form of pre-test for collisions, and only looks at the
triangles inside the box if necessary. A model with components that are
defined localized (not spread out) will have much better collision
testing performance than one whose components are not. For example,
modeling the entire enclosure of the machine in a single STL will ensure
that every triangle of the enclosure will be tested on every motion (and
in fact, many times for each motion). It is better to model the
enclosure in sections: left, right, top and so on.

If a computerized model of the machine cannot be obtained from your
machine tool builder, then you will have to create the model components
yourself. If your machine can be modeled using the simple primitives
described earlier, then you will not need the assistance of a CAD
system. Complex curved surfaces can only be created with the assistance
of a CAD system capable of exporting an STL file.
