QUEST User Interface
--------------------

The QUEST user interface consists of three main windows (:ref:`see the image
<using_quest>`).

1. The left hand window is the **Navigator**, which is used to view the
   list of models in a database as well as to access the different
   information components of a model. Select the “Database” tab at the
   bottom of the navigator window to see the list of databases.
   Individual models can be read into QUEST from a database so they can
   be viewed or modified. Each model, once loaded, can be accessed by
   selecting its named tab at the bottom of the navigator window. The
   Help tab in the Information window displays information about the
   entry selected in the Navigator, including a preview of the model
   automatically taken when it was last saved or generated. Double-click
   on a section entry in the Navigator window to make changes to that
   section.

   \

2. The upper right window is the **Main** working window. This window
   will change to show the machine model, lists of questions, dialog
   panels, macros, etc., resulting from selections made in the
   Navigator. Most of your interaction with QUEST will occur in the main
   window. You can press the F1 function key to obtain context sensitive
   on-line help on how to use the main window.

   \

3. The lower right window is the **Information** window. This window
   holds various types of information, each of which can be accessed by
   selecting one of the organizational tabs arranged along the bottom
   edge of the window. Most of the time, QUEST will automatically select
   the proper tab for you based on the last feature or action requested.
   The tab names and their purpose are as follows:

   -  The **Help** tab provides detailed help when the Main window focus is
      on a question, or when a section is selected in the Navigator window.

   -  The **Build** tab lists informational and diagnostic messages when
      they occur. You can often double-click on a diagnostic message to
      address the problem in the Main window.

   -  The **Finder** tab lists the results of the last search operation.
      Use the Tools»Finder menu-bar selection (Ctrl Shift F shortcut) to
      find questions, dialogs and macros containing text matching a
      “search” string (press F1 to obtain help on search features).
      Double-click on any line listed in the Finder tab to change the Main
      window focus to the selected item. Use F4 and Shift F4 to
      sequentially shift the Finder tab focus (and indirectly the Main
      window focus) forwards and backwards through the list of items found.

   -  The **Diffs** tab lists the differences between two selected models.
      Use the Tools»Diffs menu-bar selection (Ctrl I shortcut) to identify
      the objects to compare (press F1 to obtain help on comparison
      features). You can double-click on any line with a solid arrow to
      change the Main window focus to the selected item. Various
      right-mouse context menu functions are also available in the Diffs
      tab to help view the comparison results.

   -  The **Axes** tab contains sliders that can be used to exercise the
      axes of the model. It also has buttons to exercise the spindle(s) and
      reset axes to their default state.

The menu-bar at the top of the application window provides access to
QUEST functions. Not all menu actions are available at all times. For
example, some database actions are only available when a database or
model is selected in the navigator. Other menu actions are related to
the macro and dialog editors. These actions will only be available when
a macro or dialog is being edited. Keyboard shortcuts are available for
some common menu actions (the shortcut key is listed in the menus to the
right of the menu item).

The most common menu actions are also available through toolbar
shortcuts (the little icons arranged below the menu-bar). Toolbars are
dockable, meaning that they can be dragged to any side of the
application window, or even be made to appear as a separate window. Like
the menu-bar selections they represent, toolbar icons may not be
selectable at all times.

The right-mouse button can be used to bring up a pop-up menu (context
sensitive menu), listing the most common menu choices that can be made
in the current window or on the item last selected. Pop-up menus also
provide access to modal display and processing options. This feature is
highly recommended, since it lists the most common actions based on the
current context.

The vertical splitter bar can be used to increase or decrease the width
of the Navigator window. The horizontal splitter bar likewise determines
how the main working window and informational window share the full
application window height. You can double-click on the splitter bar to
quickly reset it to its last position.

Interface differences between Developer and Run-time Environments
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Virtual Machine interface used in QUEST is nearly identical to the
one used in GENER and CERUN, with the following differences.

-  QUEST supports a single Virtual Machine simulation window only.

   \

-  QUEST does not include the Tools/Holders/Heads dialog, nor does it
   include the Parts/Fixtures dialog, nor is it concerned with
   Fixture/Length/Diameter compensations defined in the simulation
   Controller, nor concerned with setups as defined in the simulation
   Manager. These types of information are stored (using GENER or CERUN)
   in the verification setup (.vsw) file associated with the part
   program.

   \

-  QUEST is primarily concerned with machine components and kinematics,
   which are stored in the database (.dbf) file as a part of the model.
   QUEST also stores the preferred Grid setup, Lighting arrangement and
   predefined camera positions with the model. Selecting the Reset
   button in Lighting and Grid dialogs inside QUEST resets to safe
   defaults.

   \

-  GENER and CERUN on the other hand cannot change the model or its
   kinematics. They use the Grid, Lighting and camera definitions from
   the model as default values. Changes made in GENER and CERUN to these
   features are saved in the verification setup (.vsw) file. Selecting
   the Reset button in Lighting and Grid dialogs inside GENER and CERUN
   resets these functions to their model defaults.

   \

-  QUEST shares the same “heads-up” display dialog as GENER and CERUN.
   The HUD schemes are stored in the Windows Registry. QUEST is only
   concerned with the current selected HUD colors and fonts, which it
   uses during interactive component creation. You can edit or change
   schemes from within QUEST (as you would from GENER and CERUN).
