Selection Groups
----------------

.. image:: ../../../media/quest_nav_selection.png
   :width: 2.333in
   :align: right

Selection groups are used to combine various objects into a group, so
that selecting any one object in the group has the same effect as
selecting all of the objects in the group. Grouping related objects in
selection groups makes it easier in GENER and CERUN to select and hide
(or unhide) a component of the machine.

For example, in the sample machine created to this point, the Shroud and
Base objects could be grouped together into a single selection group, so
that at run-time the entire base of the machine could easily be hidden
by a single click followed by a Simulation»Hide Selection (Ctrl B) menu
selection.

.. image:: ../../../media/quest_selection_group.png
   :width: 2.942in
   :align: right

Selection groups can be found in the navigator window under
the Groups»Selection header. You create a new group by dragging an
object to the Groups»Selection header. You add objects to an existing
group by dragging them to the group header. You can also drag an entire
collision or exclusion group to the selection group header to create a
new selection group. You can create as many selection groups as are
necessary to best represent the grouping of objects of your model. Note
though that the same object cannot appear in multiple selection groups.
Objects and entire groups can be deleted to remove the selection
relationships. Finally, you can open the Properties of a selection group
and disable the visibility property of the group, so that the group
starts off hidden in GENER and CERUN.

.. image:: ../../../media/quest_vm_construct_group.png
   :height: 0.583in
   :class: image-lowered

The grouping of objects can make it impossible to select and edit the
properties of a particular object in the simulation window if it is
grouped with other objects. For that reason, in QUEST only, selection
grouping can be toggled on and off using the Simulation»Group Selection
menu bar function (and also using the Group button shown circled above
on the VM Construct toolbar).
