Debug»Macro Manager
-------------------

The Macro Manager Dialog provides debugger functionality to enable or
disable any macro, to enable or disable the tracing of a macro when
“stepping”, as well as to view or change the settings of system
variables that enable or disable the processing of startup and shutdown
macros (these variables are grayed out if their corresponding
startup/shutdown macros are not defined). Enabling or disabling macros
and/or changing the macro variable settings may affect the results of
the post-processor. Changing the trace settings does not affect the
results of the post-processor.

The Macro Manager also has check-box options to hide or show composite
post-processor component macros that do not belong to the currently
active component, external before/after macros, macros belonging to the
current post-processor, and Virtual Machine macros associated with the
machine model. Hiding or showing macros does not affect the results of
the post-processor.

Changes made in the Macro Manager are applicable for the current GENER
session only. They will be remembered on a **Run»Restart** but not on a
**File»NewJob**, **File»LoadJob** or following a **File»Exit**.

|image1|

**Enable/Disable Macro Variables**

-  You can disable all cycle startup/shutdown macros by clearing the
   $CYCMAC check box. This is equivalent to setting the $CYCMAC variable
   in a macro to $FALSE. When a macro sets $CYCMAC=$TRUE, then this box
   will appear as checked.
-  You can disable all motion startup/shutdown macros by clearing the
   $MTNMAC check box. The $MTNMAC variable can also be set from within a
   macro.
-  You can disable the operation event macro by clearing the $OEMAC
   check box. The $OEMAC variable can also be set from within a macro.
-  You can disable the register macro by clearing the $REGMAC check box.
   The $REGMAC variable can also be set from within a macro.
-  You can disable the tape macro by clearing the $TAPMAC check box. The
   $TAPMAC variable can also be set from within a macro.

**Show/Hide Macro Filters**

Filters can help to reduce the number of macros listed in the window to
a particular group. This will help to examine the list in case there is
a large number of macros active in the session.

**Enable/Disable Macro Execution**

The check box in the ‘Execute’ column is used to disable-enable
execution of any listed macro.

**Enable/Disable Macro Tracing**

The check box in the ‘Trace’ column is used to disable-enable tracing of
a given macro in the Macro Listing window. When tracing of a particular
macro is disabled, it will be not possible to Step-In, ..., and examine
how the macro executes. Tracing status of a macro does not affect its
execution flow.

**Close button**

Close the macro list dialog.

.. |image1| image:: ./media/bb42e68fef8c446704678fcd0b4078e9b68f99bd.gif

