Virtual Machine Tooling
=======================

Adding Tooling Definitions to the Simulation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

VM can attach solid model representations of tools and their holders to
the machine model when they are loaded. Once attached, they become part
of the collision detection process. When Material Removal Simulation
(MRS) is enabled, VM will modify stock and machinable fixture objects to
simulate the cutting actions of the tool. VM supports a variety of tool
types for both milling and turning applications, and can support both 2D
revolved contour or generic 3D shapes for holder definitions. Select
Simulation»Tools (Ctrl Alt T short cut) to activate the
`Tools/Holders/Heads <../dialogs/vmthhdlg.html>`__ dialog.

|image1|

Select the **Tools** and **Holders** tabs to switch between tool and
holder definitions. Select the New button to define a new tool or
holder. Select an existing definition and use the central pane to make
modifications; press the Apply button when done. Modified entries are
listed in red until changes are applied. Select an existing definition
and press the Delete button to remove it. Select the **Heads** tab to
load or unload head attachments that are defined within the model.

All tool definitions (excluding probes) include a cutting color
selection, which is used with MRS (material removal simulation) to
identify surfaces on the in-process stock formed by the cutting or
additive action of the tool. Tools also include a usage setting, which
can override the default MRS cutting tolerance, loosening it for
Semi-Finishing and Roughing tools (to reduce CPU usage).

When exiting the Tools/Holders/Heads dialog, VM will check for
consistency between the tool length settings as defined for each tool,
and the corresponding tool length compensation settings as defined in
the Simulation»Controller window Tool Compensation tab. Inconsistencies
are listed along with the choice to correct problems for all, selected
or no tools.

Tool and holder definitions are automatically saved in the verification
setup (.vsw) file when the program is completed. This setup file will be
reused on subsequent runs to quickly reestablish the tooling necessary
for an accurate simulation.

ICAM provides “Manufacturing Extractors” for many popular CAM systems,
which automatically create tool and holder definitions that match those
used in the NC program.

.. |image1| image:: ./media/5fc0400feb014e4d5cd6505f4c1ea48025f113f0.bmp

