Virtual Machine Tool Compensation
=================================

Setting Tool Compensation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

|image1|

On most machines, the CNC provides some form of tool compensation to
adjust for differences in the length (or position) and diameter of the
tool. VM provides a virtual controller that supports both fixture and
tool compensation. The VM controller can be activated from the View
toolbar by selecting the button shown circled in the toolbar above.
Select the button a second time to either hide the controller window or
to restore a controller window that has been minimized. This window can
also be controlled by selecting Simulation»Controller from the menu bar.
Once the VM Controller window is active, select the Tool Compensation
tab to define or modify tool length and diameter compensation amounts.

|image2|

Note: VM will not let you add length and/or diameter compensation
offsets if these features are not available on the machine (as defined
in the post-processor or control emulator).

ICAM provides “Manufacturing Extractors” for many popular CAM systems,
which can automatically define tool compensation settings from tooling
used in the NC program.

Tool compensation data is automatically saved in the verification setup
(.vsw) file when the program is completed. This setup file will be
reused on subsequent runs to quickly reestablish the tool compensation
settings necessary for an accurate simulation.

Length Compensation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Length compensation typically adjusts the Z-axis position of the control
point, to account for differences between programmed and actual tool
lengths. If the NC program already compensates for tool lengths in the
coordinate data, then length compensation is not necessary in VM. If the
coordinate data does not take into account the gage length of the tool,
then length compensation must be used with VM to correctly check the NC
program. Press the Add button and then enter the length compensation ID
to be added. You can select any axis of any ID and type a new value. You
can also select one or more IDs and use the Set and Zero buttons to set
or zero offsets for all selected IDs simultaneously.

Diameter Compensation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Diameter compensation adjusts the trajectory of the tool to compensate
for differences between the programmed and actual tool diameters. Most
CAM systems output coordinate data that is already offset from the part
surface by the radius of the tool, making diameter compensation
unnecessary in VM. If the coordinate data represents the contact point
of the tool with the surface instead of the tool center point, then
diameter compensation must be used with VM to correctly check the NC
program. Press the Add button, and then enter the diameter compensation
ID to be added. You can select any ID and type a new diameter value. You
can also select one or more IDs and use the Zero button to zero offsets
for all selected IDs simultaneously.

.. |image1| image:: ./media/68515ad395090cfbe35de7a126a309750f568e4e.bmp
.. |image2| image:: ./media/5d42883a96905e856ea8da9b805776d7060ff5cf.bmp

