Activating the Simulation Windows
=================================

.. image:: ../../media/uir_view_simulation.png
      :height: 0.583in
      :align: left
      :class: image-lowered

GENER and CERUN must be started using the “Full” interface display
setting on the main launch panel in order to see the machine simulation
(this is equivalent to specifying the “/verbose” option on the command
line). Once the GENER or CERUN full user interface (UI) appears, the
simulation windows can then be activated from the View toolbar by
selecting the button show circled in the toolbar above. Select the
button a second time to either hide the simulation windows or to restore
simulation windows that have been hidden. The simulation windows can
also be controlled by selecting Simulation»‌Virtual Machine from the menu
bar. Up to four independent simulation windows can be activated.

.. image:: ../../media/sim_activating.png
      :width: 4.278in
      :align: right

Simulation windows can display the machine model, tools and
their holders (and heads), fixtures and chucks, finished part and
corresponding rough stock. There are various Simulation»‌Show settings
and toolbars that affect the amount and types of information shown in a
simulation window. The Simulation»Virtual Machine menu has a
Lock View Properties toggle that when selected will apply changed
settings to all of the simulation windows. When Lock View Properties is
not selected, changes are only applied to the currently selected
simulation window, which is identified by a green border.

.. note::

   It is important to note that collision and overtravel detection (GENER
   and CERUN) and collision avoidance (GENER) are not affected in any way
   by the state of the simulation windows.

Pressing the right-mouse button in a simulation window will pop up a
context-sensitive menu with various actions available depending on the
object under the mouse pointer when the button was pressed, including
the ability to view and in some cases change the object’s properties.

.. image:: ../../media/vm_view.png
      :height: 0.542in
      :align: right
      :class: image-lowered

-  The **VM View** toolbar buttons let you toggle between perspective and
   orthographic projection, snap the camera to standard machine views
   (Front, Back, Top, etc.), and automatically fit either the selected
   object or the entire scene for optimal visibility.
   See :ref:`Simulation » Virtual Machine<sim_vm>` for details on using the
   mouse and keyboard to navigate and control the camera in the simulation window.

.. image:: ../../media/vm_mode.png
      :height: 0.542in
      :align: right
      :class: image-lowered

-  The **VM Mode** toolbar buttons control the selection mode
   (camera vs. select vs. measure), inhibit material removal simulation
   and tool vs. part collision testing, select wireframe vs. solid
   display of objects, and enable a “heads up display” that appears
   overlaid in the simulation window.

.. image:: ../../media/vm_tool_path.png
      :height: 0.542in
      :align: right
      :class: image-lowered

-  The **VM Tool Path** toolbar buttons  enable the tracing of the
   tool-path and the tool-axis vectors in the simulation window, as well
   as the extent of the trace (showing the last *n* seconds, tools or
   operations).

.. image:: ../../media/vm_view_filter.png
      :height: 0.542in
      :align: right
      :class: image-lowered

-  The **VM View Filter** toolbar buttons toggle the visibility of the
   machine, tooling, fixtures, initial stock, design part, in-process
   stock and stock checkpoints, gouged material and excess
   material.

.. image:: ../../media/vm_cross_section.png
      :height: 0.542in
      :align: right
      :class: image-lowered

-  The **VM Cross Section** toolbar buttons  section the
   in-process stock for better visibility and measure­ment purposes. The
   stock itself is not affected.

.. image:: ../../media/vm_grid.png
      :height: 0.542in
      :align: right
      :class: image-lowered

-  The **VM Grid** toolbar provides selectable datum-plane grids, coordinate
   frame references, various kinematics markers, a safety-zone
   visibility toggle and a snap-to-grid setting.
