.. _adjustinglighting:

Adjusting Lighting
==================

VM supports up to seven different lights: a “headlight” that is fixed
behind the viewpoint facing into the simulation, and six others that can
be placed strategically around or even inside the machine. Each light
consumes a little more GPU, so if graphic performance is a problem you
might try reducing the number of lights being used. Unlike in the real
world, solid objects do not affect VM lights, they shine through
objects, do not cast shadows, and the lights themselves are not visible
in the simulation windows.

.. image:: ../../media/lighting.png
      :width: 4.389in
      :align: right

Lighting will normally not need to be adjusted. If the
simulation window is completely dark, it might not necessarily be due to
a lighting problem. Even with all lights off, VM provides a certain
amount of ambient light. Before adjusting the lights, first make sure
that the viewpoint is back and away from the machine (to do so, first
press Ctrl spacebar, and then press and hold the down-arrow to pan
back). If the machine is visible, but too dark or too light, select
Simulation»Lights (Ctrl Alt L) to bring up the Lights dialog.

The horizontal slider rotates your viewpoint around the machine. The
vertical slider changes the viewing distance. Moveable lights appear as
small spheres, but you may have to hide the machine (clear the “Objects”
checkbox) to see them. They are positioned on a hemisphere using the
left and right-mouse buttons. The left-mouse button controls the
position on the hemisphere. The right-mouse button controls the size of
the hemisphere. To adjust the light, place the mouse pointer over the
light and then press and hold either the left or the right-mouse button.
Move the mouse to change the lighting position or distance. If a light
appears immovable, perhaps the distance has been set to a very small
value. In this case, use the right-mouse button to increase the lighting
distance. It is also possible to position a light so far away that it
can no longer be selected. In this case, the Reset button can be used to
set all lights to their default positions.

Light intensity is controlled by the individual sliders associated with
each light. The color of each light can be adjusted by first selecting
the box to the right of the intensity slider and then choosing a color
from the color chart. Using different colors for your light sources will
improve depth perception.

Pressing the Reset button in GENER and CERUN sets the lighting to the
default as defined and saved in the model by QUEST. Pressing the Reset
button in QUEST sets the lighting to a built-in default based on the
grid size.
