.. _vm_runtime:

Using VM with GENER and CERUN
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

This section describes how to select Virtual Machine models for use both
with Icam Post GENER and with Control Emulator CERUN. It explains the
post-processor command interface that can be used with GENER to control
the simulation. It also describes a common user interface (UI) made
available by both GENER and CERUN that you can use to view and
manipulate the model during the simulation, as well as to define cutting
tools, holding fixtures, finish part, rough stock, and workpiece and
tool compensations used to validate the simulation.

VM provides the ability to test for axis overtravel and for collisions
between various components of the machine and those of the part being
manufactured. GENER and CERUN use this information to report problems,
and GENER can use this information in some instances to correct problems
*before* they occur.

The following is a list of things you should know to effectively use VM.
Each of these topics is discussed in the sections that follow.

.. toctree::
   :titlesonly:

   selectvm
   controllingvm
   actsimwindow
   adjustlight
   addpartfixstock
   setfixcomp
   addtooldef
   settoolcomp
   monvmres

The steps outlined in this section are not all necessary, but the
completeness and accuracy of the simulation depends on complete and
accurate data. At a minimum, tool compensation and fixture compensation
are needed to validate travel and machine related collisions. At a
minimum, tool definitions are needed to validate tool related
collisions. Part and fixture definitions improve the collision detection
process. Stock definitions are required to take advantage of material
removal simulation for part verification purposes.
