Setting Fixture Compensation
============================

.. image:: ../../media/uir_view_controller.png
      :height: 0.583in
      :align: left
      :class: image-lowered

Motion data is processed in relation to the machine origin.
On most modern machines, the machine origin (i.e., the position at which
all axes read zero) can be adjusted by the NC operator. Many CNCs
provide for the definition of multiple origins with fixture (or
workpiece) compensation. VM provides a virtual controller that supports
both fixture and tool compensation. The Controller can be toggled from
the View toolbar by selecting the button shown circled in the toolbar
above. Select the button a second time to either hide the Controller
window or to restore a Controller window that has been minimized. This
window can also be controlled by selecting Simulation»Controller from
the menu bar.

.. image:: ../../media/fixture_comp.png
      :width: 4.267in
      :align: right
      :class: image-lowered

Once the Controller window is active, select the Fixture
Compensation tab to define or modify workpiece offsets. VM supports the
definition of a global “base” offset, as well as individual workpiece
offsets to match those in use at the machine.

Fixture compensation data is automatically saved in the verification
setup (.vsw) file when the program ends. This setup file will be reused
on subsequent runs to reestablish the workpiece compensation settings
necessary for an accurate simulation.

**Base compensation** adjusts the machine zero point. All coordinate
data is transformed by the base amount, regardless of the current
workpiece compensation settings. Base compensation should not normally
be used except in cases where the machine has a settable zero and no
other form of workpiece compensation. In this case, the base
compensation can be used to adjust the machine zero point to match the
zero point that will be set by the NC machine operator.

**Fixture compensation** offsets are defined relative to the base zero
point. Press the Add button and enter the fixture compensation ID to be
added, using the same form of ID numbers you would use in the
CUTCOM/ADJUST command with GENER (e.g., for many controls, the range 1-6
represents G54-G59). You can select any axis of any ID and type a new
value. You can also select one or more IDs and use the Set and Zero
buttons to set or zero offsets for all selected IDs simultaneously. The
Add button will be disabled if fixture compensation is not available for
the selected machine. Base compensation is always available.

By accurately setting fixture compensation values, you can obtain a more
realistic and complete simulation of the machine.

ICAM provides “Manufacturing Extractors” for many popular CAM systems,
which can automatically define fixture (i.e., workpiece) compensation
settings matching coordinate frames used in the NC program.
