.. _toolcompensationtab:

Setting Tool Compensation
=========================

.. image:: ../../media/uir_view_controller.png
      :height: 0.583in
      :align: left
      :class: image-lowered

Most CNC’s provides some form of tool compensation to adjust
for differences in the length (or position) and diameter of the tool.
Advanced controllers provide 3D compensation, which can also compensate
for differences in tool corner radius. VM provides a virtual controller
that supports these forms of tool compensation. The Controller window
can be toggled from the View toolbar by selecting the button shown
circled in the toolbar above, or by selecting Simulation»‌Controller from
the menu bar. Once the Controller window is active, select the Tool
Compensation tab to define or modify tool length, diameter and corner
radius compensation amounts. Note though that VM will not let you add
length and/or diameter compensation offsets if these features are not
available on the machine (as defined in the post-processor or control
emulator).

ICAM provides “Manufacturing Extractors” for many popular CAM systems,
which can automatically define tool compensation settings from tooling
used in the NC program.

.. image:: ../../media/tool_comp.png
      :width: 4.267in
      :align: right
      :class: image-lowered

Tool compensation data is automatically saved in the
verification setup (.vsw) file when the program ends. This setup file
will be reused on subsequent runs to reestablish the tool compensation
settings necessary for an accurate simulation.

Length Compensation
-------------------

Length compensation typically adjusts the Z-axis position of the control
point, to account for differences between programmed and actual tool
lengths. If the NC program already compensates for tool lengths in the
coordinate data, then length compensation is not necessary in VM. If the
coordinate data does not take into account the gauge length of the tool,
then length compensation must be used with VM to correctly check the NC
program. Press the Add button and then enter the length compensation ID
to be added. You can select any axis of any ID and type a new value. You
can also select one or more IDs and use the Set and Zero buttons to set
or zero offsets for all selected IDs simultaneously. Select the
Consistency button to compare the tool length settings defined for each
tool against their corresponding tool length compensation amounts.
Inconsistencies are listed along with the choice to correct problems for
all, selected or no tools.

Diameter Compensation
---------------------

Diameter compensation adjusts the trajectory of the tool to compensate
for differences between the programmed and actual tool diameters, or
tool shapes. Most CAM systems output coordinate data that is already
offset from the part surface by the radius of the tool, making diameter
compensation unnecessary in VM. If the coordinate data represents the
contact point of the tool with the surface instead of the tool center
point, diameter compensation must be used with VM to correctly check the
NC program. Press the Add button and enter the diameter compensation ID
to be added. Then select the ID and enter the diameter and corner
radius. You can also select one or more IDs and use the Zero button to
zero offsets for all selected IDs simultaneously.
