GENER CAM Dialog
================

The CAM button on GENER panel is used to specify the type of CAM system
that created the CL file. Changes made to these settings are remembered
from one run to the next. The following panel will appear when the CAM
button is pressed:

CAM System
~~~~~~~~~~

Specifies the name of a CAM interface kit.

Each CAM interface is self contained in a separate directory. All
standard interfaces can be found in the *kit* subdirectory below the
installation directory. User customized interface kits can be created in
the *kit* subdirectory below the application data directory. The
application data kit subdirectory is searched first for a matching kit
name, before searching the installation kit subdirectory. Each kit must
contain an ICAM.DEF file defining the configuration details that are
necessary for that specific CAM system format. Kit DEF file symbols take
precedence over (i.e., override) those in the regular ICAM.DEF file.

The drop-down control can be used to select a kit from the list of
available choices. You can obtain more information about the selected
interface kit using the [ ? ] button. Select “-- **No CAM interface
kit** --” to run GENER with the default or customized settings listed in
the Settings box. Select “-- **Automatic** --” to have GENER choose an
appropriate interface kit based on the input CL file type and content.
The CAM system choice will take precedence over (i.e., override) the
*interface_kit* symbol definition in the selected definitions file.

Settings
~~~~~~~~

This group lists the DEF file settings that can have an effect on how a
CL file is read. Normally all fields are inaccessible except for the
“Customize Settings” checkbox. You can see the effect various DEF files
and CAM settings have by looking at the fields in the Settings group.

OK, Cancel and Reset buttons
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Press **OK** to accept any changes to the CAM panel and return to the
main launch panel. Press **Cancel** to ignore your changes and return to
the main launch panel. Press **Reset** to remove all specialized
settings and reset the CL file input format options to their defaults.

