CERUN Settings
==============

The CERUN launch panel page provides a simple and interactive method of
selecting the appropriate set of CERUN processing options. The launch
panel remembers the last settings used and saves this information in the
Windows Registry. Remembered settings can be recalled via the drop-down
lists that appear beside many of the launch panel input fields.

When CERUN is started, the launch panel will be displayed as shown
below.

|image1|

If any required fields are not answered or are invalid the tab icon will
have a red cross and the OK button will be disabled until the problem is
solved.

**Tape File**

This input field is used to enter the tape file name, by either typing
it in (you must include the full directory path) or by using the square
browser button [...] located immediately to the right of the input
field. The last four file selections are remembered, and they can be
re-accessed by selecting them from the drop-down list. The browse tape
file panel remembers the last directory browsed for a tape file

Enter the tape (MCD data) file name and path you want to process, or
choose one from the MRU (Most Recently Used) list. This field is
required.

When processing in PSE mode, the input field will be grayed out as the
GENER output file will automatically be used as the CERUN input.

**Database**

This input field is used to select the database that contains the
control emulator to use. You can browse for a database using the square
browse button [...] located immediately to the right of the text window,
or you can drag and drop a database (.dbf, .dmp, .dp) file onto the
launch panel window. The last four database selections are remembered.
They can be re-accessed by selecting them from the drop-down list. The
browse database panel remembers the last directory browsed for a
database, unless the *icam_dbf* environment variable is set.

**Control Emulator (CE) and Revision (Rev)**

Use these input fields to choose a control emulator from the selected
database. The control emulator drop-down presents a list of generated
and dedicated control emulators (i.e., it shows only those control
emulators from the database that can be used by CERUN). The revision
field lists the latest revision of the selected control emulator and the
drop-down lists other generated revisions, if any. Information about the
selected control emulator will appear in the **Description** box.

CERUN cannot run a CE created with a version of QUEST that is higher
than the current version.

**Include PP**

Select this checkbox to include post-processors as well as control
emulators in the CE selection list. CERUN can use the questionnaire
information from a post-processor when emulating a CNC machine. This
produces the same results as would be obtained by creating a control
emulator as a link or copy of an existing post-processor and then
generating without customization.

**User Parameters**

Use this field to pass user defined parameters to the control emulator.
Some control emulators alter their behavior based on user-defined
parameter data. Anything typed in this input field will be passed to the
control emulator as a user-defined parameter in the $UPARAM macro
variable.

**Optional Skip**

Use these input fields to specify a starting condition for the optional
skip (also called “block delete”) settings. Use the ON and OFF radio
buttons to select the starting setting for those CNC’s that support a
single on/off form of optional skip. For CNC’s that support multiple
levels of optional skip, ON selects the default optional skip level and
Multiple allows a comma or blank separated list of opskip levels to be
specified.

CERUN requires the MCD file name, the database and the control emulator
name before it can proceed. Everything else is optional.

**OK, Cancel and other buttons**

Options
~~~~~~~

-  `Options button: specifies output options <cerunoptions.html>`__

.. |image1| image:: ./media/b11be13e8e690fac12b6136cbaf2e2449e031ee8.png

