DB Manager / AUTOPOST Button
============================

Database Manager
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The DB Manager button can be used to perform routine maintenance
activities on ICAM databases. All of the functions available with the
QUEST Database Navigator are also available from the DB Manager dialog.
These include, for example, the ability to add, rename, copy and delete
post-processors, as well as the ability to create new databases and move
or copy post-processors between them. The database manager can also be
used to add or remove password protection on a database.

The following panel will appear when the DB Manager button is pressed.
The upper half of the DB Manager dialog lists the databases in the same
way as the QUEST database navigator; the lower half logs the status of
any changes.

One of the most important functions of the DB Manager is to import into
the database CAM-POST post-processors, Virtual Machine models and
Control Emulators that have been provided to you in an “export” format.
Select the production database, press the right-mouse button, and then
choose **Import** from the pop-up context menu. You can use the Import
feature to load dedicated posts, models and control emulators (files
with a *dp* file extension), exported posts, models and control
emulators (files with a *dmp* file extension) and even the content of
entire databases (files with *dbf* file extension) into the selected
database.

The Import panel includes a “Detect new/updated files on the next run”
checkbox that, if selected, will notify you when exported files are
added to or changed in the last directory used by the Import feature.
This test is performed each time the launch panel is run. It checks for
exported files more recent than the date of the last import.

AUTOPOST (requires "xqs" license)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you have an AUTOPOST license, then the "DB Manager" button will be
changed to "AUTOPOST". AUTOPOST has all of the same database
functionality as the DB Manager, but also gives you access to the "New
Post Wizard" and "Modification Wizard". These Wizards, normally only
available from QUEST, provide the ability to create and modify
post-processors.

In AUTOPOST mode, the toolbar New and Modify buttons are used to call
the wizards.

