GENER Settings
==============

The GENER tab is used to select the input aptsource (CL file) to be
post-processed, along with the post-processor, as well as various
post-processing options.

CL File
~~~~~~~

This input field is used to enter the CL file name, by either typing it
in (you must include the full directory path), or by using the square
browse button […] located immediately to the right of the input field,
or by dragging and dropping a CL file onto the launch panel window. The
last four file selections are remembered. They can be re-accessed by
selecting them from the dropdown list. The browse CL file panel
remembers the last directory browsed for a CL file, unless the *icam_cl*
environment variable is set.

Database
~~~~~~~~

This input field is used to select the database that contains the
post-processor to use. You can browse for a database using the square
browse button […] located immediately to the right of the text window,
or you can drag and drop a database (dbf, dmp or dp) file onto the
launch panel window. The last four database selections are remembered.
They can be re-accessed by selecting them from the drop-down list. The
browse database panel remembers the last directory browsed for a
database, unless the *icam_dbf* environment variable is set.

Post processor and Revision (Rev)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use these input fields to choose a post-processor from the selected
database. The post-processor drop-down presents a list of generated and
dedicated post-processors (i.e., it shows only those post-processors
from the database that can be used by GENER). The revision field lists
the latest revision of the selected post-processor and the drop-down
lists other generated revisions, if any. Information about the selected
post-processor will appear in the **Description** box.

One of the available post-processor choices is *“Use MACHIN statement
from CL file”*, which when selected will use the MACHIN command in the
chosen CL file to automatically select the post-processor. You cannot
choose a specific revision of a post when it is selected via the CL file
MACHIN command.

GENER can run a post-processor created with QUEST 2000/13.0 or later.
GENER can not run a post-processor created with a version of QUEST that
is higher than the GENER version.

Program ID
~~~~~~~~~~

Use this input field to specify a program ID (sometimes referred to as a
PID). Some post-processors output the PID at the start of the program.
For those post-processors that require a PID, you can sometimes avoid
the PID prompt (or an unwanted default value) by typing a PID string in
this field. Anything you enter in this field will be stored in the $PID
macro variable.

User Parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use this field to pass user defined parameters to the post-processor.
Some post-processors alter their behavior based on user-defined
parameter data. Anything typed in this input field will be passed to the
post-processor as a user-defined parameter in the $UPARAM macro
variable.

Options and CAM buttons
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  `Options button: specifies output options <../launch/generoptions.html>`__
-  `CAM button: specifies input CL file options <../launch/cam.html>`__

