Graphical Questionnaire View
----------------------------

|image1|

The Graphical Questionnaire View is used when providing answers to
questions about the post processor. The Graphical Questionnaire View is
raised when you double click on a section name in the `post processor
navigator <../navigator.html#Post%20Processor%20Navigator>`__ and the
“Graphical View” mode is enabled. All questions related to the section
are shown as normal graphic controls and part of a section layout.

Sections can be displayed with questions grouped under multiple tabs.
The tabs will appear at the bottom of the Questionnaire View. Clicking
on a tab will bring those questions associated with the tab to the
foreground. Sometimes it is more convenient to look at all the questions
of a section together. To do this, use the context popup menu (right
mouse button click) and disable tabbed output by unselecting *Use Tab*.

You can select a question with the mouse, or you can use the tab and
shift-tab keys ti navigate through the dynamic graphical question layout
like in a normal dialog. The selected question is displayed in blue
(unless you have customized the display color). The
`Help <../consoleview.html#Help>`__ window shows detailed information
about the question. To respond to a question, you can type the full or
abbreviated answer at the question prompt, or you can select a preset
response found in hot-spots between the **[ ]**\ brackets. The current
default answer is shown in the question control. The **[ ]** brackets
inside the prompt text describe or list the type of response allowed. A
`calculator <../../dialogs/calculator.html>`__ is available to help you
answer questions that require a calculated result.

As you change answers to some questions, you might notice that other
questions in the section become inactive. This is normal. QUEST is
designed to eliminate questions that no longer apply. The next time you
enter the section, the inactive questions will no longer appear. You can
select *Clear* using the right mouse context menu to clear inactive
questions at any time or you can select *Auto Clear* (in the context
popup menu) to automatically clear inactive questions (this is the
default).

Question for which you gave an answer that differ from the default one
are displayed in green (unless you customized the display color). Using
the context popup menu (right mouse button click) on those questions
will give you the option of resetting the answer back to it’s default
value.

Infinite level Do and Undo is available while you are in question
sections. Once you exit the section, however, you can not undo
individual changes.

**Reset:** This button resets the section to an initial "never answered"
state (this action can be undone).

**Cancel:** This button closes the Question View, discarding any changes
that were made (this action **can not** be undone).

**OK:** This button closes the Question View saving all changes.
Sometimes the OK button is not available. This occurs when there is a
question in the section that requires a response and a default one was
not available. These are called "stopper" questions and are generally
shown in red.

.. |image1| image:: ./media/ada6f6ee81b3ab4b903980229a218e3df0d4ab07.gif

