The Chip and Split Dialog
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

|image1| The Chip and Split dialog provides functions to segment the
in-process stock into multiple independent pieces as well as to remove
uncut in-process stock fragments from the simulation. This function is
only available with a Material Removal Simulation (MRS) license.

When the dialog is activated, an analysis is performed of the in-process
stock remaining in the simulation. Each separate stock object including
all disconnected stock chips (i.e., fragments) that remain in the
simulation are listed one per line in the dialog. Each is identified by
a combination of part name, stock component name and chip number. The
volume of each is also listed (the volume units are as defined in the
Simulation»Options dialog MRS tab). Double-click on a column header to
sort the data by that column. Double-click on the header again to
reverse the sort order.

Stock chips selected in the dialog will be highlighted in the simulation
window. Multiple stock chips can be selected in the dialog by using the
Ctrl and Shift keys as normal. Pressing the “Remove selection” button
will completely remove all selected stock chip from the simulation from
the current time going forwards. Any stock chips that were removed will
become visible only when moving Time Line backwards past the moment in
time at which they were removed.

Stock chips can be automatically removed using the Simulation»Options
dialog MRS tab “Automatic chip removal” settings. The post-processor or
model developer can also programmatically remove disconnected stock
chips via the Virtual Machine $FMSCHIP function.

.. |image1| image:: ./media/c1ae0eb6547064d35d94f2cb2c9844ba503adb15.bmp

