The Compare Dialog
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

|image1| Comparison between the design part and the in-process stock is
only available with a MRS (Material Removal Simulation) license
available and enabled via the VM pane on the GENER and CERUN launch
panels. The MRS license provides the added functionality to compute the
effect of the cutting process of the tool on the rough stock. The
resultant shape is called the “in-process stock”.

The Boolean excess and overcut results can sometimes be misleading,
since it can be difficult to judge the thickness of the excess or gouge
material. VM provides a Simulation»Compare (Ctrl Alt Q shortcut) color
graduated part/stock comparison feature to address this issue. The
comparison colorization settings are applied only to gouge and excess
material, which must first be enabled by selecting one or both of the
Simulation»Show»Filters»Boolean Overcut and …»Boolean Undercut filters.
Select the …»Colorized Boolean filter to compute and view the results.

The comparison is done by sampling the surface of the gouge and/or
excess material, and computing the shortest distance to the part. The
distance is then used to assign a fixed or graduated color, as defined
using the various options of the Compare dialog. If the sample size is
small, or the part very large, the colorization process may take a long
time to compute. The comparison can be cancelled at any time, in which
case the displayed results will be incomplete (but perhaps still
useful).

The settings of note on the Compare dialog are:

-  **Units**: Specifies the units of measure for all numeric values in
   the dialog.
-  **Sampling steps**: Specifies the maximum distance along the surface
   between comparison measurements. Using a small value may greatly
   increase the computation time and complexity of the resulting
   colorized object.
-  **Scale style**: Defines how the excess and gouge distances will be
   colorized. Three excess and three gouge zones are available, at
   increasing offsets from the part. With the Solid color and Gradient
   color settings, each zone is represented by a single user definable
   color (using the color buttons to the right of the scale). With the
   Gradient zone setting, the inner two zones can individually be color
   graduated between two colors.
-  **Track measurement…**: If selected, the measured distance between
   stock and part under the cursor will be shown and dynamically updated
   as the cursor moves. You can also toggle this feature on and off
   using Ctrl Q.

Those surfaces on the colorized in-process stock that are neither gouged
or excess will not be shown, unless the
Simulation»Show»Filters»Transparent Zero filter is enabled.

When viewing the gouge material in combination with either the part or
the in-process stock, it helps to select the part with the mouse so that
its surface becomes transparent, allowing the gouged material surface to
be seen.

The Simulation»Chip and Split (Ctrl Alt C) feature can be used to remove
uncut in-process stock fragments from the simulation before performing a
comparison.

.. |image1| image:: ./media/f73cf148da4707e3731483600e46989a44ef04d2.bmp

