The Group Dialog |image1|
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  :ref:`Collision Groups <vmgroupcolliongroups>`
-  :ref:`Collision Exclusion Groups <vmgroupcollionexclusiongroups>`
-  :ref:`Selection Groups <vmgroupselectiongroups>`

.. _vmgroupcolliongroups:

Collision Groups
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

All objects that are enabled for collision testing are also listed in
one of the collision groups that can be found in the navigator window
under the Groups»Collision header. When objects are first enabled for
collision, they are added to the first collision group in this section
(“Collision Group001” by default). Objects can also be enabled for
collision by dragging them from the Machines or Heads sections of the
model navigator to a particular collision group, or to the
Groups»Collision header, which will create a new group containing the
dragged object. You can hold the Ctrl key down when dragging to also
include all dependent objects in the model navigator tree.

Multiple collision groups can be created for your own organizational
purposes, but an object can only appear in a single collision group at a
time. Objects can be easily dragged from one collision group to the
next.

Delete an object from the collision group to disable collision testing
on that object. You can also delete the collision group itself, which
disables collision testing on all objects that were in that group.
Finally, you can open the Properties of a collision group and disable
the collision property of the group. This has the same effect as though
the group was deleted (i.e., collision testing will be disabled on all
objects listed), without actually affecting the collision
enabled/disabled state of the objects themselves. This can be very
useful for “what if?” testing of the collision behavior of the model.


.. _vmgroupcollionexclusiongroups:

Collision Exclusion Groups
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When collision testing is enabled on objects that are physically
touching, they are then displayed as colliding. One way to avoid this
problem is to change the physical definition of objects such that they
do not overlap or touch, but this may not always be practical or even
possible. VM has a “collision exclusion” feature that provides a much
better way of handling this problem.

With collision exclusion, you can tell VM to ignore collisions between
groups of related objects. VM will not test for collisions between any
objects that reside in the same group, but it will continue to test for
collisions between those objects and all other collision enabled
objects.

Collision exclusion groups can be found in the navigator window under
the Groups»Exclusion header. You create a new group by dragging an
object to the Groups»Exclusion header. You add objects to an existing
group by dragging them to the group header. You can also drag an entire
collision group to the exclusion group header to create a new exclusion
group. You can create as many groups as are necessary to handle the
collision exclusion requirements of your model. The same object can
appear in multiple exclusion groups. Objects and entire groups can be
deleted to remove collision exclusion relationships. Finally, you can
open the Properties of a collision exclusion group and disable the
exclusion property of the group. This has the same effect as though the
group was deleted, which can be useful for “what if?” testing.

GENER and CERUN automatically perform collision exclusion on any objects
that are colliding when the model is first loaded. However, it is better
practice to not rely on this feature, but instead create exclusion
groups based on your own understanding of how the model behaves.


.. _vmgroupselectiongroups:

Selection Groups
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Selection groups are used to combine various objects into a group, so
that selecting any one object in the group has the same effect as
selecting all of the objects in the group. Grouping related objects in
selection groups makes it easier in GENER and CERUN to select and hide
(or unhide) a component of the machine.

Selection groups can be found in the navigator window under the
Groups»Selection header. You create a new group by dragging an object to
the Groups»Selection header. You add objects to an existing group by
dragging them to the group header. You can also drag an entire collision
or exclusion group to the selection group header to create a new
selection group. You can create as many selection groups as are
necessary to best represent the grouping of objects of your model. Note
though that the same object cannot appear in multiple selection groups.
Objects and entire groups can be deleted to remove the selection
relationships. Finally, you can open the Properties of a selection group
and disable the visibility property of the group, so that the group
starts off hidden in GENER and CERUN.

The grouping of objects can make it impossible to select and edit the
properties of a particular object in the simulation window if it is
grouped with other objects. For that reason, in QUEST only, selection
grouping can be toggled on and off using the Simulation»Group Selection
menu bar function (and also using the Group button on the VM Construct
toolbar).

.. |image1| image:: ./media/e9fc362cee44f266b7cb640362adaa1dac06e157.bmp

