.. _sim_camera:

Simulation»Camera
-----------------

.. image:: ../../../media/sim_camera_menu.png
   :height: 3.792in
   :align: right

Controls various aspects of the positioning of the camera.

Simulation»Camera»Fit (Ctrl Space\ [#]_)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Camera Fit function first points the camera towards the center of
the currently selected object and then pans in or out so that the
selected object is fully visible within the active simulation window. If
no object is selected, then the camera will be adjusted to view the
entire model. You can use this function to quickly reorient the camera
when you are unsure of where you are pointing or if you cannot see the
model. The Fit function is also available from the VM View toolbar.

When the current focus is on the Controller Time Line window, the Fit
function will adjust the scale of the Time Line window so that the
entire process is visible.

.. [#] The “Ctrl Space” hotkey combination might be unavailable due to a
   Microsoft Chinese language IME bug. Use “Ctrl .” (control key and
   decimal point) as an alternate.

Simulation»Camera»Center (Ctrl Shift Space)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Camera Center function points the camera towards the center of the
currently selected object, or if no object is selected, then towards the
origin of the Grid reference (i.e., the center of the three grids).

When the current focus is on the Controller Time Line window, the Center
function will adjust the position of the Time Line scale so that the
blue vertical line (marking the current time position) is visible and
centered in the Time Line window.

Simulation»Camera»Pivot (Ctrl P)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Camera Pivot function sets the center of rotation for the camera to
the center of the currently selected object. The pivot center is the
point in space at which the camera will aim as it is rotated. If no
object is selected, then the camera will rotate about the origin of the
Grid reference (i.e., the center of the three grids).

Simulation»Camera»Attach
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Attaches the camera to the currently selected object. If no object is
selected, the camera is attached to the world coordinate system (this is
the default). When the camera is attached to an object, the camera moves
with the object. Standard viewpoints are always in relation to the
attached object. The camera can also be attached to an object using the
right-mouse “Attach Camera” context menu on that object. The camera can
be detached by doing the same in the background. A checkmark in the menu
indicates that the camera is attached to an object.

Simulation»Camera»Perspective
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Switches between Perspective and Orthogonal projection in the simulation
window. The Perspective projection provides a more realistic viewing of
the simulation, equivalent to what you would see in the natural world.
With Orthogonal projection, distance has no effect on the size of an
object. Orthogonal views typically provide better control when defining
part, stock and fixture objects.

.. rst-class:: multi-heading

Simulation»Camera»Front
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. rst-class:: multi-heading

Simulation»Camera»Back
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. rst-class:: multi-heading

Simulation»Camera»Top
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. rst-class:: multi-heading

Simulation»Camera»Bottom
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. rst-class:: multi-heading

Simulation»Camera»Left
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Simulation»Camera»Right
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: ../../../media/vm_view_standard.png
   :height: 0.583in
   :align: left
   :class: image-lowered

Switches the camera to one of six standard viewpoints (the
VM View toolbar shown at left provides buttons for each standard
viewpoint). Viewpoints are relative to the frame defined in the VM Grid
toolbar (the stock axis by default).

The camera can only be panned (i.e., not rotated) when a standard
viewpoint is selected. You can select and then immediately deselect a
view button, to first snap to a standard view and then allow camera
rotation.

Simulation»Camera»Speed (Ctrl +, Ctrl –)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. container:: keep-together

   .. image:: ../../../media/sim_camera_speed.png
      :width: 3.700in
      :align: right

   The Speed»Increase and Speed»Decrease menu selections
   (Ctrl + and Ctrl –) adjust the default step size used when panning the
   camera. Each activation of the menu will only adjust the speed setting
   by one notch, so it is far more convenient to use the shortcut keys.

   When adjusting the camera speed, a “volume control” type bar will appear
   briefly in the simulation windows to show a relative measure of the
   current step size.

   The step size can be temporarily reduced, while panning, to
   1/10\ :sup:`th` the normal amount by holding the Shift key.

Simulation»Camera»View Angle (Shift +, Shift –)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: ../../../media/sim_camera_angle.png
   :width: 3.700in
   :align: right

The View Angle»Increase and View Angle»‌Decrease menu selections
(Shift + and Shift –) adjust the viewing angle of the camera lens.
Each activation of the menu will only adjust the viewing angle by
one notch, so it is far more convenient to use the shortcut keys.

When adjusting the angle, a viewing angle size indicator will appear
briefly in the simulation windows.

The default viewing angle is 45 degrees. Increasing the viewing angle
makes it possible to see more of the scene, at the expense of some
distortion. Decreasing the viewing angle makes it possible to look at
the scene in fine detail, but also makes it a little harder to navigate.

The viewing angle is used in Perspective mode only.

.. rst-class:: multi-heading

Simulation»Camera»Load (Ctrl 0-9)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Simulation»Camera»Save (Ctrl Alt 0-9)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Camera Save menu selection (Ctrl Alt 0 through Ctrl Alt 9) records
the current camera viewpoint, position and orientation in one of 10
standard user-defined viewpoints. The Camera Load menu selection (Ctrl 0
through Ctrl 9) resets the camera to a previously saved position. The
camera can directly switch to the new position, or it can smoothly
interpolate to the new position, if both the old and new positions share
the same underlying viewpoint (e.g., both are perspective views, or both
are front views). The Camera animation mode can be set in the
:ref:`Simulation»Options dialog Misc tab<options_misc>` “use camera animation” checkbox.

Simulation»Camera»Reset
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Camera Reset menu entry resets all camera settings and moves the
camera to an application default viewpoint. The reset operation also
removes all saved camera viewpoints and resets the camera speed and
viewing angle to the application defaults.
