.. _sim_selection:

Simulation»Selection
--------------------

.. image:: ../../../media/sim_selection_menu.png
   :height: 1.135in
   :align: right

The Simulation»Selection menu selections provide the capability to hide
objects (i.e., make them invisible), or make hidden objects visible
again. Selecting an object in the Simulation window with the right-mouse
button will pop up context sensitive menu that can be used to hide the
object in the current or all views. Note that Hidden objects continue to
be tested for collisions.

.. _sim_sel_hide:

Simulation»Selection»Hide in View (Ctrl B)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: ../../../media/sim_hide.png
   :width: 3.700in
   :align: right

The Hide Selection (QUEST) and Hide in View (GENER and
CERUN) function makes the currently selected object or objects invisible
in the *currently active* simulation window. Compare this to the
Hide in All Views function below. Once an object is hidden, it is no
longer shown in the simulation window.

To select an object, press and hold the Ctrl key (if you are in Camera
mode), move the mouse pointer to the object to be selected, then press
the left-mouse button. The selected object will become transparent. You
can deselect an already selected object, or add more objects to the list
of selected ones, by holding the Shift key down when making a selection.
Press Ctrl B to make the selected objects invisible.

In the image shown above, the machine enclosure has been hidden (it is
longer visible), and the tables and fixtures have been selected (they
are shown transparent). Hiding and selecting are two methods you can use
to get an unobstructed view of the manufacturing process.

Simulation»Selection»Hide in All Views
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Hide in All Views function makes the currently selected object or
objects invisible in *all* of the simulation windows. Compare this to
the Hide in View function above.

.. _sim_sel_show:

Simulation»Selection»Show All/Rehide (Ctrl Alt B)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Show All/Rehide function makes visible all hidden objects in the
*currently active* simulation window. Compare this to the
Show All/Rehide in All Views function below. Select this function a
second time to again hide the objects that were just made visible.

Simulation»Selection»Show All/Rehide in All Views
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Show All/Rehide in All Views function makes visible all hidden
objects in *all* of the simulation windows. Compare this to the
Show All/Rehide function above. Select this function a second time to
again hide the objects that were just made visible.

.. _sim_sel_invert_hide:

Simulation»Selection»Invert Hide State (Ctrl Shift B)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Invert Hide State function reverses the “hidden” state setting for
all objects in the *currently active* simulation window. Objects that
are hidden will now be shown; those are shown will now be hidden. You
can use this feature to unhide one or more selected objects, as follows:

1. Type Ctrl Shift B to show just the hidden (and any selected) objects
2. Select the objects you no longer want hidden
3. Type Ctrl B to remove them from view
4. Type Ctrl Shift B to return back to the original display
