Variable
--------

This window displays the value of variables when post processing is
paused. The window is split in two parts. The left part automatically
displays global, object and local variables. This list gets refreshed
anytime the list of variables changes. You can look at the global,
object or local variable lists by selecting the proper tab. The right
part displays selected variables that you want to look at. By default
you have three tabs that you can use to organize the variables to look
at. You can add more tabs by using the popup context menu (right mouse
click) Add Page.

By default, global, object and local variables having a value of $NULL
are shown. This may give you a very long list of variables. You can use
the context popup menu “Show $NULL variables” setting to prevent
variables having a value of $NULL from being displayed.

You can add variables to one of the watch window tabs by double clicking
in an empty space of the window and then typing the variable name to
look at. You can select a variable name from the left side
(Global/Object/Local) window or from the source window, and drag and
drop it into the watch window. You can also use the popup context menu
Add New Variable. You can modify the value of a variable by first double
clicking on it’s current value, which will put you in edit mode, and
then typing in the new value.

Arrays and sequences can be expanded to look at individual elements by
pressing the + sign on the left of the variable. The type of each
variable is also displayed to the left of the variable name. It could be
one of the following:

-  LOG: Logical type
-  STR: String type
-  NUM: Numeric type
-  KEY: Keyword type
-  REC: Record type

Under the variable type will be listed the variable scope. It can be one
of the following:

-  G: Global scope
-  O: Object scope
-  L: Local scope

When a variable gets declared, you do not have to specify its type. The
variable type will simply change as you assign values to it. If you
assign a string to a logical variable, the variable type will change
from logical to string. But if you declare a variable as being of a
specific type, then you cannot assign a value of a different type. A
small lock symbol will be drawn next to the scope letter (G, O or L) of
variables defined as a specific type. If the value of a variable has
changed since the last pause, it will be shown in a different color.

|image1|

.. |image1| image:: ./media/148d91d602b39a32bb9572e6ba113a7ff74f6e94.gif

