.. _sim_group_selection:

Simulation»Group Selection :small:`(QUEST only)`
------------------------------------------------

Objects can be grouped together in QUEST so that picking any object in a
group will cause the entire group to be selected. For example, the
cosmetic features of a machine could all be grouped together so that
they could then be easily selected and hidden during GENER or CERUN
processing (see the Hide Selection function :ref:here `<simulationselectionmenuselection>`).

To create a selection group, drag the first object of the group from the
model navigator to the Groups»Selection header. A new “Selection
Group01” group will be created containing that object. Other related
objects can then be added to the group by dragging them from the model
navigator to the selection group. Hold the Ctrl key down when dragging
to also include all dependent objects in the model navigator tree.

Multiple selection groups can be created as necessary, but an object can
only appear in a single selection group at a time. Objects can be easily
dragged from one selection group to the next. Delete an object from a
selection group to remove its “grouped” attribute.

When the Group Selection function toggle is active, picking an object
that belongs to a selection group will cause all objects of that group
to be selected. This is the only form of object picking that is
supported with GENER and CERUN. When the Group Selection function toggle
is not active and an object is picked, only that object is selected. The
Group Selection function can also be toggled from the VM Construct
toolbar.

The default visibility of a selection group can be set from the
selection group Properties.
