Toolbars
********

Toolbars provide quick and easy access to the most commonly used
controls. Toolbars can be activated or hidden using the Tools»Toolbar
menu selection, which opens the Toolbars dialog. With GENER and CERUN,
toolbars can also be activated or hidden using a right-mouse context
menu from the application window background. Toolbars are dockable,
meaning that you can drag a toolbar to any of the four sides of the main
window. Toolbars can also be undocked by dragging them away from the
sides (or by holding the Ctrl key). This section describes the Virtual
Machine toolbars and their associated functions and short-cut keys.

Not all toolbars and toolbar functions are available in all products. If
a toolbar is not universally available, the applicable products are
listed in the title.

View :small:`(CERUN & GENER only)`
==================================

.. image:: ../../media/uir_view_vm.png
   :height: 0.583in
   :class: image-lowered

The View toolbar is one of the standard toolbars available with the
GENER and CERUN UI. This toolbar has buttons that control the visibility
of windows used to trace the inputs and outputs of the process. Three of
these buttons are unique to VM, as follows:

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/uir_view_vm_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Virtual Machine**: Views or hides the simulation
   windows.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/uir_view_controller_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Controller**: Views or hides the Controller
   window, which is used to jog axes, set tool and fixture compensation,
   and to replay the simulation at any point in time.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/uir_view_manager_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Manager**: Views or hides the Simulation Manager
   window, which is used to view or modify tooling, parts, fixtures and
   setups.

VM Construct :small:`(QUEST only)`
==================================

.. image:: ../../media/vm_construct.png
   :height: 0.542in
   :class: image-lowered

\

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_construct_wcs_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Use World CS**: When selected, object
   coordinates are listed in world coordinates, originating from the center
   of the grids. When unselected, an object’s coordinates are listed
   relative to its parent (i.e., in local coordinates). This button also
   affects the placement of objects copied from one place to another in the
   model navigator. When world coordinates are selected, the object retains
   its position despite being moved or copied from one place to another in
   the navigator hierarchy. When local coordinates are selected, the object
   is placed relative to its new parent at the same offset it was
   originally at relative to its old parent.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_construct_group_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Group Selection**: When selected, picking any
   component of a group will select the entire group. Objects can be
   grouped into larger components, for selection purposes, in the
   3D Models»Groups»Selection section of the model navigator.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_construct_cube_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Construct Entity»Cube**: Creates a cubic entity,
   given an XYZ origin and the width, length and height of the cube. Once
   created, the cube can be further rotated to the required orientation.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_construct_cylinder_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Construct Entity»Cylinder**: Creates a
   cylindrical entity, given an XYZ origin and the radius and height of the
   cylinder. Once created, the cylinder can be further rotated to the
   required orientation. The starting and ending radii can also be
   modified.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_construct_cone_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Construct Entity»Cone**: Creates a conical
   entity, given an XYZ origin, base radius and height of the cone. Once
   created, the cone can be further rotated to the required orientation.
   The starting and ending radii can also be modified.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_construct_sphere_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Construct Entity»Sphere**: Creates a spherical
   entity, given an XYZ origin and radius of the sphere. Once created, the
   sphere can be further rotated to the required orientation. The “number
   of subdivisions” controls the smoothness of the sphere, with a value 0
   producing a (20 face) icosahedron, and increasing subdivisions increases
   the faces by a factor of 3. A maximum of 6 subdivisions is permitted
   (very CPU intensive).

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_construct_revolved_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Construct Entity»Revolved**: Sweeps a 2D profile
   over a complete or partial arc to produce a surface of revolution. The
   profile is defined as a series of (radius, height) pairs of coordinates,
   which is swept around the Z-axis. Once created, the surface can be
   further rotated to the required orientation.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_construct_extruded_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Construct Entity»Extruded**: Sweeps a 2D closed
   profile along a vector to produce an extruded surface. The profile is
   defined as a series of (x, y) pairs of coordinates, joined at the start
   an end, which is extruded along a vector (positive Z by default) for a
   specified distance. Once created, the surface can be further rotated to
   the required orientation.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_construct_mesh_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Construct Entity»Mesh**: Imports an STL mesh
   into the model. Once imported, the mesh surface can be further scaled
   and rotated to its required size and orientation. A “Smoothing” function
   can improve the appearance of facetted surfaces by using smooth light
   rendering at edges having a change of angle within a specified amount.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_construct_picture_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Construct Entity Picture**: Loads a bitmap
   image, given the point in the model for the lower left corner of the
   image, and the X-axis width and Y-axis height of the image in model
   coordinates. The picture can be rotated to the required orientation.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_construct_linear_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Construct Axis»Linear Axis**: Creates a linear
   axis, given a point of origin and the direction and range of motion.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_construct_rotary_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Construct Axis»Rotary Axis**: Creates a rotary
   axis, given a point of origin, the rotation axis and an optional range
   of motion.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_construct_curve_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Construct Axis»Curve Axis**: Creates a curved
   axis, given a point of origin and an open or closed 2D profile. The
   profile is defined as a series of (x, y) pairs of coordinates. The
   curved axis can be further rotated the required orientation.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_construct_tool_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Construct Axis»Tool Axis**: Creates a tool
   reference point that can identify one of: the SCP of the machine, a
   specific pocket in the tool changer, or other named places where tools
   might be attached.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_construct_stock_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Construct Axis»Stock Axis**: Creates a part
   reference point that identifies where fixtures and parts are loaded on
   the machine.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_construct_head_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Construct Axis»Head Axis**: Creates a head
   reference point that can identify one of: the head attachment point on
   the machine, head storage locations for inactive heads, and other places
   where heads might be attached.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_construct_reference_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Construct Axis»Reference Axis**: Creates a
   reference point in the model. Reference points are used to group related
   entities.

VM Mode :small:`(CERUN & GENER only)`
=====================================

.. image:: ../../media/vm_mode.png
   :height: 0.542in
   :class: image-lowered

\

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_mode_camera_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Mode»Camera**: Selects “camera” mode, which is
   equivalent to selecting the “Default to camera mode” checkbox in the
   Simulation»Options (Ctrl Alt O) Misc settings. The left-mouse button
   will subsequently control the orientation of the camera. The mouse
   pointer will appear as a four-way arrow. Hold the Ctrl key down to
   temporarily (while the key is held) switch to “selection” mode.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_mode_select_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Mode»Selection**: Selects “selection” mode,
   which is equivalent to clearing the “Default to camera mode” checkbox in
   the Simulation»Options (Ctrl Alt O) Misc settings. The left-mouse button
   will subsequently select objects. The mouse pointer will appear as an
   arrow. Hold the Ctrl key down to temporarily (while the key is held)
   switch to “camera” mode.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_mode_measure_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Mode»Measurement**: Selects “measurement” mode.
   The left-mouse button will subsequently select objects for measurement
   purposes. The mouse pointer will appear as caliper/square combination.
   Hold the Ctrl key down to temporarily (while the key is held) switch to
   “camera” mode.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_mode_mrs_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Mode»Pause Material Removal**: Temporarily
   disables material removal simulation (MRS). When selected, the
   in-process stock and machinable fixtures will not be affected by the
   cutting action of the tool.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_mode_gouge_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Mode»Pause Gouge Detection:** Temporarily
   disables tool vs. part gouge detection. When selected, interference
   (i.e., collisions) will no longer be diagnosed between the cutting tool
   and the design part.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_mode_wireframe_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»Wireframe**: Switches between wireframe
   and solid rendering of objects in the Simulation window.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_mode_hud_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»Display**: Views or hides the heads-up
   status display that floats above the simulation window. The HUD is not
   available with QUEST.

VM Grid
========

.. image:: ../../media/vm_grid.png
   :height: 0.542in
   :class: image-lowered

The VM Grid toolbar contains a drop-down list of all axes defined in the
model (including tool, head and stock axes). The grid reference zero and
orientation will be with respect to the selected axis. The standard
viewpoint settings in the VM View toolbar are also with respect to the
selected grid axis.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_grid_xy_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»XY Plane Grid**: Views or hides the XY
   plane grid. Line spacing, colors, units and other settings are
   controlled by selecting Simulation»Grid (Ctrl G).

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_grid_yz_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»YZ Plane Grid**: Views or hides the YZ
   plane grid.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_grid_zx_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»ZX Plane Grid**: Views or hides the ZX
   plane grid.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_grid_axes_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»Axes Marker**: Views or hides the axes
   marker showing the origin. Marker size, colors and other settings are
   controlled by selecting Simulation»Grid (Ctrl G).

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_grid_kinematics_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»Kinematics**: Views or hides the kinematics
   markers showing the type and position of linear axes, rotary axes, and
   the TCP and SCP control point positions.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_grid_safety_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»Safety Zones**: Views or hides the display
   of the safety zone that surrounds objects that have a safe distance
   setting for collision testing. The safety zone is drawn with a fixed
   transparent color, so that the underlying object can also be seen.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_grid_work_ref_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»Workpiece Reference**: Views or hides the
   display of a marker showing the origin and orientation of the workpiece
   coordinate frame. This frame includes the effects of fixture
   compensation, RTCP and any local coordinate system (LCS).

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_grid_tool_ref_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»Tool Reference**: Views or hides the
   display of a marker showing the offset at the spindle control point
   (SCP) due to the effects of tool length or tool offset compensation.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_grid_snap_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Grid** (Ctrl Alt G): Enables or disables the
   “snap-to-grid” mode of object construction using the mouse. When
   enabled, mouse coordinates snap to a defined grid size. Hold the Shift
   key to temporarily (while the key is held) reverse the snap-to-grid
   setting. Grid spacing can also be set by selecting Simulation»Grid.

VM View
=========

.. image:: ../../media/vm_view.png
   :height: 0.542in
   :class: image-lowered

The 6 middle buttons on the VM View toolbar lock the simulation window
camera rotation to one of 6 standard views, with respect to the axis
selected in the VM Grid toolbar. While any one of these 6 buttons is
selected, camera rotation functions are disabled and the camera can be
panned only.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_view_3d_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Camera»Perspective**: Switches to a 3D
   Perspective view of the simulation window. When deselected, switches to
   an Orthogonal view of the simulation window.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_view_front_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Camera»Front**: Switches to a front view of the
   simulation window.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_view_back_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Camera»Back**: Switches to a back view of the
   simulation window.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_view_top_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Camera»Top**: Switches to a top view of the
   simulation window.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_view_bottom_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Camera»Bottom**: Switches to a bottom view of
   the simulation window.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_view_left_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Camera»Left**: Switches to a left side view of
   the simulation window.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_view_right_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Camera»Right**: Switches to a right side view of
   the simulation window.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_view_fit_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Camera»Fit**: Fits the selected object(s) in the
   simulation window view.

VM View Filter :small:`(CERUN & GENER only)`
============================================

.. image:: ../../media/vm_view_filter.png
   :height: 0.542in
   :class: image-lowered

\

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_view_filter_machine_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»Filters»Machine**: Views or hides the
   display of the machine model and any head components.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_view_filter_tool_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»Filters»Tools**: Views or hides the display
   of the tools.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_view_filter_fixture_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»Filters»Fixtures**: Views or hides the
   display of the fixtures.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_view_filter_stock_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»Filters»Stock**: Views or hides the display
   of the initial stock.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_view_filter_part_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»Filters»Parts**: Views or hides the display
   of the finished parts.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_view_filter_mrs_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»Filters»In-process Stock**: Views or hides
   the display of the in-process stock, as calculated by the Material
   Removal Simulation option.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_view_filter_checkp_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»Filters»Stock Checkpoints**: Toggles the
   display of the in-process stock as it appeared at earlier moments in
   time when moving the Time Line backwards and forwards. These earlier
   checkpoints can be taken at each tool change, at each operation and/or
   periodically during long cutting sequences as controlled from the
   Simulation»Options menu MRS tab “In-process stock checkpoints” settings.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_view_filter_over_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»Filters»Boolean Overcut**: Views or hides
   the display of gouges in the finished part, as calculated by the
   Material Removal Simulation option.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_view_filter_under_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»Filters»Boolean Undercut**: Views or hides
   the display of excess stock material, as calculated by the Material
   Removal Simulation option.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_view_filter_color_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»Filters»Colorized Boolean**: Views or hides
   the display of a color graduated difference between stock and part, as
   calculated by the Material Removal Simulation option. Select
   Simulation»Compare (Ctrl Alt Q) to view or modify comparison settings.
   Colorized differences are available only when one or both of the Overcut
   or Undercut buttons are selected.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_view_filter_zero_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»Filters»Transparent Zero**: Modifies the
   display of colorized differences between stock and part to either show
   in a transparent color, or not show, all faces of the gouge or excess
   material that are within an acceptable tolerance with respect to the
   part.

VM Measure
===========

.. image:: ../../media/vm_measure.png
   :height: 0.542in
   :class: image-lowered

.. |measure_button| image:: ../../media/vm_mode_measure_button.png
   :height: 0.219in

The buttons on the VM Measure toolbar are only available while in
measurement mode, as set using the |measure_button| Measurement button on the
VM Mode toolbar or Simulation»Mode»Measurement menu bar. The 3 middle
buttons are filters that enable or disable picking of the various
components of the triangles that make up the in-process stock.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_measure_distang_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Measure»Distances and angles**: Measures the
   distance and angle between subsequently selected entities, as well as
   the *xyz* offset between entities.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_measure_radcen_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Measure»Radius and center**: Measures the radius
   and *xyz* center of a circle constructed through 3 subsequently selected
   points and/or edge midpoints.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_measure_vertex_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Measure»Vertex**: Enables or disables the
   picking of points on the boundary of the triangles that make up the
   object.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_measure_edge_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Measure»Edge**: Enables or disables the picking
   of edges of the triangles that make up the object.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_measure_face_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Measure»Face**: Enables or disables the picking
   of faces of the triangles that make up the object.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_measure_fan_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Measure»Fan**: Switches between chained (one to
   the next) and fanned (one to many) measurements.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_measure_overlay_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Measure»Overlay**: When enabled, the objects
   selected for measurement will always be visible, no matter how the
   camera is oriented.

VM Animation :small:`(CERUN & GENER only)`
==========================================

.. image:: ../../media/vm_animation.png
   :height: 0.542in
   :class: image-lowered

\

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_animation_continuous_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   Selects continuous animation mode, which is equivalent to
   selecting “Continuous” in the Simulation»Options (Ctrl Alt O) dialog
   Misc tab Animation control settings. Select this method to slow the
   simulation down to some factor of real time, as controlled by the
   slider.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_animation_stepped_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   Selects stepped animation mode, which is equivalent to
   selecting “Motion Step” in the Simulation»Options dialog Misc tab
   Animation control settings. Select this method to refresh the display
   after every *step* number of motions, as controlled by the slider.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_animation_timed_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   Selects timed refreshed animation mode, which is equivalent
   to selecting “Time Interval” in the Simulation»Options dialog Misc tab
   Animation control settings. Select this method to refresh the display
   after every *interval* number of seconds, as controlled by the slider.

VM Tool Path :small:`(CERUN & GENER only)`
==========================================

.. image:: ../../media/vm_tool_path.png
   :height: 0.542in
   :class: image-lowered

\

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_tool_path_path_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»Tool Path** (Ctrl T): Views or hides the
   display of the tool path trace in the simulation window. Trace data is
   always recorded, regardless of the display setting.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_tool_path_vector_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»Tool Vector**: Views or hides the display
   of the tool axis vector when tool path tracing is enabled in the
   simulation window.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_tool_path_overlay_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»Tool Path as Overlay** (Ctrl Shift T): When
   selected, the tool path trace is always visible, even when the tool path
   is behind objects that would normally obscure the trace.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_tool_path_seconds_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   Limits the trace to the last specified number of seconds,
   defined in the numeric input field. This is equivalent to selecting
   “From last *n* seconds” in the Simulation»Options (Ctrl Alt O) dialog
   Tool path tab Mode settings.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_tool_path_tools_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   Limits the trace to the last specified number of tool
   changes. This is equivalent to selecting “From last *n* tools” in the
   Simulation»Options dialog Tool path tab Mode settings.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_tool_path_operations_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   Limits the trace to the last specified number of operations.
   This is equivalent to selecting “From last *n* operations” in the
   Simulation»Options dialog Tool path tab Mode settings. Note that if none
   of the three trace limit buttons are selected, then the trace is output
   for the entire tool path.

VM Cross Section :small:`(CERUN & GENER only)`
==============================================

.. image:: ../../media/vm_cross_section.png
   :height: 0.542in
   :class: image-lowered

The Cross Section functions can be used to obtain a cross section view
of the in-process stock, which is only available when the Material
Removal Simulation (MRS) license option is enabled.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_cross_section_xy_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»Cross Section»XY Plane**: Enables or
   disables a cross section view of the in-process stock taken along the XY
   plane of the stock axis. The section plane can be offset by entering a
   value in the numeric input field.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_cross_section_yz_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»Cross Section»YZ Plane**: Enables or
   disables a cross section view of the in-process stock taken along the YZ
   plane of the stock axis. The section plane can be offset by entering a
   value in the numeric input field.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_cross_section_zx_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»Cross Section»ZX Plane**: Enables or
   disables a cross section view of the in-process stock taken along the ZX
   plane of the stock axis. The section plane can be offset by entering a
   value in the numeric input field.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_cross_section_custom_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»Cross Section»Custom Plane**: Enables or
   disables a cross section view of the in-process stock taken along a
   plane defined using the Simulation»Measure picking functions. The
   section plane can be offset by entering a value in the numeric input
   field.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_cross_section_invert_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»Cross Section»Invert Plane**: Switches
   between showing the in-process stock on one side of the cross section
   plane or the other.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_cross_section_grid_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»Cross Section»Show Grid**: Enables or
   disables the display of a grid on the cross section plane. Grid settings
   are the same as for the Simulation»Grid feature.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_cross_section_push_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»Cross Section»Push Plane**: Each press of
   this button further offsets the cross section plane by a fixed amount
   (as defined in the Simulation»Options dialog Misc tab) towards the
   visible portion of the in-process stock. The current offset is shown in
   the numeric field.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_cross_section_pull_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Show»Cross Section»Pull Plane**: Each press of
   this button further offsets the cross section plane by a fixed amount
   (as defined in the Simulation»Options dialog Misc tab) away from the
   visible portion of the in-process stock. The current offset is shown in
   the numeric field.

VM Annotation :small:`(CERUN & GENER only)`
===========================================

.. image:: ../../media/vm_annotation.png
   :height: 0.542in
   :class: image-lowered

The Annotation functions provide a rudimentary capability to first
(optionally) mark-up the simulation window and then take snapshots
and/or videos of the simulation.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_annotation_annotate_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Annotation»Annotate**: Toggles the left-mouse
   action between annotate and non-annotate modes. When in annotation mode,
   the cursor will appear as a small pencil that will draw in the
   simulation window when the left-mouse button is held down. Drawing is
   equivalent to marking a glass pane that appears on top of the simulation
   window.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_annotation_color_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Annotation»Color**: Opens a dialog that selects
   the drawing color.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_annotation_erase_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Annotation»Erase**: Clears the drawing pane
   (this cannot be undone).

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_annotation_snapshot_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Annotation»Snapshot**: Takes a PNG image of the
   simulation window, including annotation data if present. Picture files
   are stored in the folder identified by the vm_picture_dir configuration
   (i.e., DEF file) variable. If this variable is not defined or is blank,
   then pictures are stored in the user’s “Pictures\\ICAM\\260” folder.
   Picture files are named “pic\ *nnn*.png”, where *nnn* is a number
   automatically chosen to avoid overwriting an existing picture.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_annotation_record_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Annotation»Record**: Starts or stops the
   recording of the contents of the simulation window, including annotation
   data if present. Video files are stored in the folder identified by the
   vm_video_dir configuration variable. If this variable is not defined or
   is blank, then videos are stored in the user’s “Videos\\ICAM\\260”
   folder. Video files are named “video\ *nnn*.avi” where *nnn* is a number
   automatically chosen to avoid overwriting an existing video. Recording
   options can be set by selecting the Video button in the
   Simulation»Options dialog Misc tab.

.. container:: icon-bullet

   .. image:: ../../media/vm_annotation_open_button.png
      :height: 0.219in

   **Simulation»Annotation»Open**: This provides quick and easy
   access to the user’s pictures and videos folders.
