Register
--------

|image1|

This dialog appears when modifying or adding new registers in the
Register panel.

**Enable register:** Uncheck this option to disable the register.

**Name:** Defines the register (word) name as recognized by your
controller. In some cases, there will be a space to enter a second name.
This occurs when the control uses register names to differentiate
between absolute and incremental units, as well as on some older merging
lathes. If the second name field is left blank, it will default to the
primary name.

   **Regular:** Select this entry when the register name is a single
   uppercase letter. Enter the letter in the box provided.

   **Special:** Select this entry when more than one character is needed
   for the letter address, or if the letter address is lowercase. This
   is considered a "special" case. You may enter zero or more characters
   to appear before the numeric value, as well as zero or more
   characters to appear following the numeric value. Special characters
   can be entered using their ASCII character code, using the **^nnn**
   format (for example, ^032 can be specified to force a leading or
   trailing blank).

**Position:** Use this drop-down box to specify the new position for the
register being modified. The new register position will follow the one
listed in this box.

**Precision:** Use these boxes to specify the number of decimal digits
before and after the implied or actual decimal point for the dimensional
value. Different precision values can be specified as follows:

   **Primary:** Specifies the register format to use when the output is
   in primary machine units.

   **Secondary:** Specifies the register format to use when the output
   is in secondary machine units (if applicable).

**Listing file:** Normally, the tape image is output to the listing file
exactly as it appears in the output tape file. As an option, the
register values can be left aligned at specific character column
positions in the listing file (search for a question containing the word
"tabbed").

   **Column:** Specifies the character column number in the listing file
   to tab to before outputting this register. If the current position in
   the output file is already past this position, then the register
   value will be output at the current position. This field can be left
   blank, in which case the column position defaults to the last column
   position defined to this point in the register list.

   **Title:** Specifies text to appear in the heading, left justified at
   the column position. A heading need not be specified.

**Decimal point:** Specifies how the decimal point should be output for
those registers that have fractional values. There are three exclusive
formats:

   **Keep:** The decimal point will always be output on registers that
   are defined with digits to the right of the decimal. For example,
   **X1.2 Y3. Z.4**

   **Fractional:** The decimal point will only be output when the
   register has a non-zero fractional value. For example, **X1.2 Y3
   Z.4**

   **Omit:** Decimal points will never be output. Older controllers
   often used this format, and relied on the count of digits to
   determine the implied decimal point location. For example, **X0012
   Y003 Z0004**

**Leading zero:** Specifies how leading zeroes (non-significant leading
zero digits to the left of the decimal) should be output:

   **Keep:** Leading zeroes will always be output. For example, **X001.2
   Y003. Z000.4**

   **0.nnn:** A single leading zero will be output for numbers that are
   less than 1, so that the value does not start with a decimal point.
   Otherwise, leading zeroes are omitted. For example, **X1.2 Y3. Z0.4**

   **Omit:** Leading zeroes will never be output. For example, **X1.2
   Y3. Z.4**

**Trailing zero:** Specifies how trailing zeroes (non-significant
trailing zero digits to the right of the decimal) should be output:

   **Keep:** Trailing zeroes will always be output. For example,
   **X1.2000 Y3.0000 Z.4000**

   **nnn.0:** A single trailing zero will be output for whole numbers,
   so that the value does not end with a decimal point. Otherwise,
   trailing zeroes are omitted. For example, **X1.2 Y3.0 Z.4**

   **Omit:** Trailing zeroes will never be output. For example, **X1.2
   Y3. Z.4**

**Show ‘+’ for positive numbers:** Select this box to have a "+" sign
output for positive numbers. By default, positive numbers are not output
with a "+" sign. For example **X+1.2**

**Test:** Shows the formatted register result given various test values.
Only the primary register format is shown.

.. |image1| image:: ./media/5ba4852fde4ff241914ce5ef2fc2d9079f5a69f8.gif

