.. _sim_chip:

Simulation»Chip and Split (Ctrl Alt C)
--------------------------------------

Activates the Simulation “Stock splitting management”
dialog, which provides functions to segment the in-process stock into
multiple independent pieces as well as to remove uncut in-process stock
fragments from the simulation. This function is only available with a
Material Removal Simulation (MRS) license.

.. image:: ../../../media/sim_chip.png
   :width: 4.508in
   :align: right

When the dialog is activated, an analysis is performed of the in-process
stock remaining in the simulation. Each separate stock object including
all disconnected stock chips (i.e., fragments) that remain in the
simulation are listed one per line in the dialog. Each is identified by
a combination of part name, stock component name and chip number. The
volume of each is also listed (the volume units are as defined in the
Simulation»Options dialog MRS tab). Double-click on a column header to
sort the data by that column. Double-click on the header again to
reverse the sort order.

Stock chips selected in the dialog will be highlighted in the simulation
window. Multiple stock chips can be selected in the dialog by using the
Ctrl and Shift keys as normal. Pressing the “**Remove selection**”
button will completely remove all selected stock chip from the
simulation from the current time going forwards. Any stock chips that
were removed will become visible only when moving Time Line backwards
past the moment in time at which they were removed.

Stock chips can be automatically removed using the Simulation»Options
dialog, under the MRS tab's “Automatic chip removal” settings.
Alternatively, disconnected stock chips can be removed programmatically
using the Virtual Machine
$FMSCHIP function.
