.. _command_break:

The BREAK Command :kbd:`[MLEPC]`
================================

The BREAK command is used to segment large tape files into
smaller segments or reels to take in account memory limitation of the
CNC controller. This command is valid for all machine types but may
not be available for a specific machine.

   :math:`\textbf{BREAK } \big[ \textbf{ / NOW} \,\big]`

NOW will break the tape unconditionally at the moment when the
post-processor encounters the command.

When the BREAK command with no parameters is encountered, the
post-processor checks if the minimum tape footage value or program
storage specified in the questionnaire has been reached or exceeded.
If the minimum size has not been reached, the BREAK command is
ignored.

If the no parameter BREAK command has been coded and the minimum size
has been exceeded, the current tape reel or file is concluded and a
new one is started. A tape reel is concluded by outputting a length
of trailer and trailing man readable if required. A DNC file is
concluded by printing a REWIND/STOP symbol. A program summary is
generated in the listing file. The new tape reel will start with man
readable if required and a length of leader. The processing then
continues as though nothing had happened.

If the maximum size has been reached before a valid BREAK command is
coded, the default action is to break the tape at the next RAPID
motion.

The questionnaire may be used to allow tape breaks at feed motions as
well.

The same minimum/maximum tape length rules apply when breaking in
feed or RAPID mode. When automatic break is generated under feed mode
the RETRCT motion will precede the tape break and the return motion
to the current position will follow.
