.. _command_clearp:

The CLEARP Command :kbd:`[ML]`
==============================

This command is used to define a clearance plane. CLEARP is used with
the RETRCT command to withdraw the tool tip to the specified plane.
This retraction plane remains in effect until changed by a new CLEARP
command, or a CLRSRF command. This command is valid for lathes and
3-axis+ mills.

There are three possible ways in which CLEARP can be programmed. The
first format can be used for lathes or mills. The second and third
formats are only valid for mills.

   :math:`\textbf{CLEARP / } d`

   :math:`\textbf{CLEARP / } a,b,c,d`

   :math:`\textbf{CLEARP /} \begin{pmatrix}\begin{array}{l} \textbf{XYPLAN} \\ \textbf{YZPLAN} \\ \textbf{ZXPLAN} \end{array}\end{pmatrix} ,d`

   :math:`\textbf{CLEARP / NOMORE}`

For the first format, GENER calculates the correct retraction plane
depending on the *d* value programmed and on the type of lathe
(whether it is a horizontal or vertical lathe). When this format is
used on a mill, the *d* value is the distance above (or below) the XY
plane.

The second format defines the clearance plane using the canonical
form of a plane *a,b,c,d*. The variables *a,b,c* specify the unit
vector that is normal to the plane and *d* specifies the distance of
the clearance plane from the part coordinate origin in the direction
of the plane normal unit vector. Symbolic planes can generally be
used by the APT programmer.

The last format uses the minor words XYPLAN, YZPLAN and ZXPLAN. They
indicate the plane normal to an axis in the part coordinate system
(for example, YZPLAN is normal to the X axis). The *d* value in this
format specifies the distance from the origin normal to the indicated
plane.

Note that the CLEARP command only defines the clearance plane, a
RETRCT command is needed to position the tool tip on the defined
plane. See :ref:`“The RETRCT Command”<command_retrct>` for more information on tool
retraction processing.

NOMORE removes the definition of the clearance surface that was
defined by CLEARP or CLRSRF commands. It is an error to code RETRCT
without a defined clearance surface.
