.. _command_couple:

The COUPLE Command :kbd:`[L]`
=============================

The COUPLE command is used to synchronize the linear axes of a lathe
with the spindle. This command can be used to machine single or
multiple start threads in one pass. It is only valid for lathes but
may not be available on a specific lathe.

   :math:`\textbf{COUPLE /} \begin{pmatrix} \begin{array}{l} \textbf{ON} \\ \textbf{OFF} \end{array} \end{pmatrix}`

ON is used to begin synchronization of the linear axes with the
spindle. OFF returns the machine to the normal mode of operation. All
motions will be synchronized, from the machineâ€™s position when ON is
coded to the last position before OFF is coded.

A PITCH command must be specified before the first COUPLE command is
coded. The PITCH command indicates the number of threads per CL unit
and the number of starts. Once PITCH is coded, it will remain in
effect until changed by another PITCH command.

When creating a thread that has multiple starts, only a single pass
is needed in the CL file. GENER will repeat the motions between the
COUPLE/ON and COUPLE/OFF commands for as many starts as are
specified. A maximum of 20 motions may be coded in the CL file
between the COUPLE/ ON and COUPLE/OFF commands when machining threads
with multiple starts.

The following example cuts a 10 TPu (threads/unit) thread with 2
starts:

   .. code-block:: text

      RAPID,GOTO/5.25,1.25  $$ Position clear thread
      PITCH/10,MULTRD,2
      RAPID,GOTO/5.25,1     $$ Start of thread COUPLE/ON $$ Synchronize
      GOTO/0.1,1            $$ Cut thread
      GODLTA/-0.1,.1        $$ Ramp out
      COUPLE/OFF            $$ Disengage

The second start will be cut automatically. The machine will retract
in a direction opposite to the feed-in direction, rapid to the
initial clearance point, rapid to the startup point offset by one
pitch and then cut the second thread to the disengage point.

A THREAD command must not be coded within a COUPLE block. This is
because they are both used to synchronize the linear axes with the
spindle. An error message will be output if this is attempted.
