.. _command_pivotz:

The PIVOTZ Command :kbd:`[EP]`
==============================

The PIVOTZ command is used to define the setting distances for wire
EDM guide heights and to specify the sheet thickness for punch
presses. This command is valid for punches and wire EDMs having 2
separately controllable wire guides. The syntax is as follows:

Punch Presses
-------------

   :math:`\textbf{PIVOTZ /} value`

The above command is used to specify the sheet thickness required (on
some machines) for nibble patterns. In addition, GENER will check
that the requested nibble increment is never less than *value*.

Wire EDM Machines
-----------------

   :math:`\textbf{PIVOTZ / }
   \big[\,\textbf{TABLE},\textbf{HIGH},\mathit{phyu}\,\big] \;
   \big[,\textbf{TABLE},\textbf{LOW},\mathit{phyl}\,\big] \; \ldots`

         :math:`\hspace{1cm} \ldots \;
         \begin{bmatrix} ,\textbf{ROTREF},\textbf{HIGH}, \begin{pmatrix}\begin{array}{l} \mathit{logu} \\ \textbf{AUTO} \end{array} \end{pmatrix}\end{bmatrix}
         \begin{bmatrix} ,\textbf{ROTREF},\textbf{LOW}, \begin{pmatrix}\begin{array}{l} \mathit{logl} \\ \textbf{AUTO} \end{array} \end{pmatrix}\end{bmatrix} \; \ldots`

         :math:`\hspace{1cm} \ldots \;
         \begin{bmatrix} ,\textbf{ADJUST}, \begin{pmatrix}\begin{array}{l} \mathit{zval} \\ \textbf{HIGH} \\ \textbf{LOW} \\ \textbf{SMALL} \\ \textbf{LARGE} \end{array}\end{pmatrix}\end{bmatrix}`

   :math:`\textbf{PIVOTZ / } \mathit{phyu,phyl,}
   \begin{pmatrix}\begin{array}{l} \mathit{logu} \\ \textbf{AUTO} \end{array}\end{pmatrix},
   \begin{pmatrix}\begin{array}{l} \mathit{logl} \\ \textbf{AUTO} \end{array}\end{pmatrix},       \begin{pmatrix}\begin{array}{l} \mathit{zval} \\ \textbf{HIGH} \\ \textbf{LOW} \\ \textbf{LARGE} \\ \textbf{SMALL} \end{array}\end{pmatrix}`

The two forms of the PIVOTZ command provide different methods of
specifying the same information. Note that if the second method is
used all 5 parameters must be specified in the order shown.

   :math:`\big[\,\textbf{TABLE},\textbf{HIGH},\mathit{phyu}\,\big] \;
   \big[,\textbf{TABLE},\textbf{LOW},\mathit{phyl}\,\big]`

These parameters define the physical wire guide positions. The values
indicate the Z axis height of the upper and lower wire guides with
respect to the machine origin. This information is used by GENER to
perform travel limit checking, as travel limit checking is based on
the physical movement of the guides.

   :math:`\begin{bmatrix} ,\textbf{ROTREF},\textbf{HIGH}, \begin{pmatrix}\begin{array}{l} \mathit{logu} \\ \textbf{AUTO} \end{array} \end{pmatrix}\end{bmatrix}
   \begin{bmatrix} ,\textbf{ROTREF},\textbf{LOW}, \begin{pmatrix}\begin{array}{l} \mathit{logl} \\ \textbf{AUTO} \end{array} \end{pmatrix}\end{bmatrix}`

These parameters define the logical wire guide positions. The values
indicate the Z axis height of the upper and lower programmed
positions with respect to the machine origin. The NC machine will
assume that lower and upper wire guide information is relative to
these guide positions. CL coordinates are projected to the logical
guide height positions before being output in the NC control tape. To
output the CL Z axis data as a machine W or Z axis value, specify
AUTO instead of an upper or lower wire guide position.

   :math:`\begin{bmatrix} ,\textbf{ADJUST}, \begin{pmatrix}\begin{array}{l} \mathit{zval} \\ \textbf{HIGH} \\ \textbf{LOW} \\ \textbf{SMALL} \\ \textbf{LARGE} \end{array}\end{pmatrix}\end{bmatrix}`

This parameter defines the position along the wire where feed rate
calculations occur. This information is used in GENER for total
machining time calculations. The time can be computed using the upper
wire guide movements or the lower guide movements by specifying HIGH
or LOW respectively. In multi-axis moves the wire guides will move
different distances and specifying SMALL or LARGE will select the
smallest or largest guide movement distance respectively. A Z axis
height “\ *zval*\ ” can be entered to have time calculations based at
the specified height relative to the machine origin.
