.. _command_plot:

The PLOT Command :kbd:`[MLEPC]`
===============================

The PLOT command is used to control GENER’s output to a backplotting
file. The following PLOT command functions are available:

-  :ref:`“PLOT Activation”<plot_activation>`
-  :ref:`“PLOT Transformation”<plot_transformation>`

.. _plot_activation:

PLOT Activation
---------------

   :math:`\textbf{PLOT / }\begin{pmatrix}\begin{array}{l}\textbf{ON} \\ \textbf{OFF} \end{array}\end{pmatrix}`

PLOT/ON will start output to a backplot file. This file will contain
the points and vectors to which the tool will move in the course of
processing. Such files are normally used for such purposes as NC tool
path verification.

The user may select the output method and the coordinate type of the
backplot file. This is done by selecting symbols in the ICAM.DEF
definition file. The method of output — ISO 3592 binary or APT file —
is selected using the plot_type symbol. The two valid choices are
*apt* and *binary*. The coordinate type — CL or Machine — is selected
using the plot_data symbol. Valid choices are *cl* and *machine*.

For information about macro system variables pertaining to the
manipulation of PLOT output, see :ref:`“Backplot File Variables”<backplot_file_variables>`.

.. _plot_transformation:

PLOT Transformation
-------------------

   :math:`\textbf{PLOT / TRFORM } \big[,\textbf{LAST}\,\big]
   \begin{bmatrix} ,\! \begin{array}{l}\mathtt{<\!matrix\!>} \\ \textbf{ON} \\ \textbf{OFF} \end{array} \end{bmatrix}`

The PLOT/TRFORM command transforms machine coordinate data by the
specified matrix before outputting it to the back-plot file. This
command can be used to properly manage back-plotting when outputting
machine coordinates that have been transformed in some fashion
outside of GENER’s normal control.

.. note::

   The PLOT/TRFORM command should not be used at the same time
   as the LCS local coordinate transformation command. LCS already
   manages plotting transformations.

Two separate transformations can be applied and removed individually.
PLOT/TRFORM defines the primary transformation, PLOT/TRFORM,LAST
defines a second transformation.

The <matrix> defines the location and orientation of the resultant
after-transformation coordinates on the machine, with respect to the
normal coordinates. The matrix can be specified using the standard
post-processor transformation syntax (see :ref:`“The ORIGIN Command”<command_origin>`).

The ON and OFF keywords enable or disable plotting transformations.
OFF ignores the effect of the matrix. ON re-establishes the
previously specified matrix.
