.. _command_retrct:

The RETRCT Command :kbd:`[ML]`
==============================

This command is used to retract the tool away from the part, along
the current tool axis to the clearance surface. The clearance surface
must have been defined earlier using :ref:`the CLEARP<command_clearp>`
or :ref:`CLRSRF<command_clrsrf>` commands. This command is valid for
lathes and 3-axis+ mills.

   :math:`\textbf{RETRCT}`

The clearance surface defined most recently remains in effect. If a
clearance plane has not been defined, the command is ignored.

If a **plane** is the current clearance surface, the tool withdraws
along the current tool axis direction until the tool tip rests on the
clearance plane. If such a position cannot be found or if the
retraction feeds into the part being machined, an error message is
issued and the command is ignored.

If a **cylinder** is defined as the clearance surface, the cylinder
axis and the current tool axis must be at right angles to each other.
The tool is again retracted along the tool axis until the tool tip
rests on the cylindrical surface and away from the part surface. If
such a retraction point cannot be found, an error message is issued
as above.

If a **point** is defined for the clearance, an imaginary plane is
constructed that passes through the point and that is perpendicular
to the current tool axis. This will be the retraction plane.

If the retraction point is outside of the machine limits, then
retraction proceeds along the tool axis to the specified plane and
GENER outputs an error message. For lathes in TURN mode, the
retraction is in a positive direction along the machineâ€™s Z axis.

The speed of retraction is based on QUEST responses and can either be
at rapid, or at the current feed rate or at a post-processor defined
rate.
