.. _command_turret:

The TURRET Command :kbd:`[L]`
=============================

The TURRET command is a non-standard\ [#]_ alias for the
LOAD/TOOL command. This command is used to load and unload tools on
lathes and mill-turn machines. The syntax of the TURRET command
follows:

   :math:`\textbf{TURRET / } \mathit{tool\_id} \;
   \Big[,\mathit{offset} \; \big[\mathit{,x\_shift,y\_shift}\,\big]\Big] \;
   \big[,\mathtt{<\!tool\_information\!>}\,\big]`

The order of the first four parameters is fixed.

   :math:`\mathit{tool\_id}`

Specifies the tool to be loaded either by the pocket number in the
tool changer, or by the tool identification number, as defined by the
machine description responses in QUEST. Specify a *tool_id* of zero
(0) to unload the tool, if supported by the machine. If the *tool_id*
matches the tool currently loaded, then a tool change operation will
not be generated. However, changes in tool length, tool offset and
orientation will be respected.

   :math:`\big[,\mathit{offset}\,\big]`

The offset parameter represents the cutter length compensation value.
It is equivalent to the OSETNO option in the standard syntax.

   :math:`\big[\mathit{,x\_shift,y\_shift}\,\big]`

The x and y shift parameters represent offsets from the tool tip to
the turret control point. They are equivalent to the SETOOL option in
the standard syntax.

For horizontal lathes, these will be applied to the Z and X machine
axes respectively if no ORIGIN matrix has been coded. For vertical
lathes they will be applied to the X and Z-axes respectively (once
again, assuming no ORIGIN matrix is in effect).

An important consideration with regard to the use of TURRET startup
macro $P arguments for tool offsets is the following: The $P
arguments of the TURRET startup refer to X,Y and Z machine axis
offsets from the turret control point to the tool tip and not the
other way around. In effect, when x and y shift values are coded,
they are first applied to the appropriate machine axes and then they
are negated before being loaded into the $P machine offset locations.
Note that these $P offset locations are also loaded by
SETOOL,xt,yt,zt parameter values.

   :math:`\big[,\mathtt{<\!tool\_information\!>}\,\big]`

See :ref:`the TOOLNO command<command_toolno>` for a description of the tool information parameters.
See :ref:`the LOAD/TOOL command<command_load>` for more information on loading tools.

.. [#] International Standards Organization ISO 4343:1972 defined TURRET
   as a standard post-processor command, but this was later revised to
   LOAD/TOOL in the ISO 4343:2000 update.

..
