CAM Interfaces
==============

|image1|

**CAM Interface:** Specifies either *Automatic* (the default) or the
name of a CAM interface kit. (``INTERFACE_KIT``)

**Input format:** Use the drop-down to select a common format, or type
the required format name. *APT* format supports APT like source
statements generated by most CAM systems. *ICAM* format supports the
ICAM binary CL file format. *ISO* format supports ASCII CL files defined
by the ISO 3592 standard. Formats for many CAD/CAM systems are also
supported. Contact your technical support representative for available
file formats. This value can be overridden by using a qualifier on the
GENER command line. (``INPUT_FORMAT``)

**Input width:** Specifies the maximum number of characters in the input
record when GENER inputs APT-like CL. Up to 256 characters per input
line can be specified, with a minimum of 40. This symbol can be
overridden with the CONTRL APT source command. (``INPUT_FORMAT``)

**APT comment:** Specifies an alternate comment delimiter to use when
GENER inputs APT-like source files. The delimiter can be one or more
characters in length. The setting of an alternate comment delimiter will
not affect the normal processing of the $$ comment delimiter.
(``COMMENT``)

**APT null input:** Specifies how null parameters in the input APT-like
source CL file should be treated. A null parameter occurs when two
commas appear in a row. Choices are: *Error* to output a diagnostic and
ignore the CLDATA record (this is the normal default); *Zero* to use the
value 0 for null parameters; and *Ignore* to ignore null parameters (this
is the default with the "catia" input format). (``NULL_INPUT``)

**MSYS9**: Specifies if the MSYS APT-like CL file command requires
special processing to convert it from a 9 parameter to 12 parameter
matrix format. Select *No* to process the MSYS command as-is (this is
the normal default). Select *Yes* to convert the 9-parameter MSYS
command matrix from Unigraphics format to a standard matrix format.
(``MSYS9``)

**ISN on output:** This specifies whether ISO 1000 class (ISN) records
should be created when the input file format is APT. A 1000 class record
identifies the input command by an ISN (internal sequence number). The
ISN number is referenced in error messages and optionally with the tape
listing as an aid to tracking the source of problems. The CONTRL command
can be used to override the default chosen here. (``ISN_ON_OUTPUT``)

**Circle format:**

   **(0,0,1) direction:** This specifies the default circular
   interpolation direction used when the CL file input to GENER is
   APT-like. GENER selects the circular interpolation direction based on
   the data found in the circle record. The default *automatic* is clw
   for CIRCLE/ and cclw for SURFACE/. If this data does not conform to
   the standard, you may have to reverse the direction. Use *clw* or
   *cclw* to override the default action of automatic. Use *none* if the
   circle record does not indicate direction, in which case arcs must be
   less than 180 degrees. The CONTRL APT source command can be used to
   override the direction chosen here. (``CIR_DIR``)

   **Unsegmented / Segmented:** When either iso or apt format cl files
   are read in, they are automatically converted to ICAM's binary
   format. In this binary format circle records can be stored in one of
   two ways. With the *Segmented* circle record structure, a series of
   5000 class records is created representing the points on the circle.
   The points are generated so that lines joining the points are within
   a tolerance. Use this method only if required for backward
   compatibility with macros that rely on this record structure. With
   the *Unsegmented* record structure a single 15000 class record is
   generated containing the circle center and radius. This is the
   preferred method, because the generated binary file is shorter and
   thus faster to process. (``CIRCLES``)

   **No adjust PS**: Controls the definition of an implied part surface
   following each motion in an APT-like CL file. The part surface is the
   tool tip contact plane when interpolating circles using one of the
   GO**\* continuous path motions commands. Clear the box to
   automatically assume an AUTOPS operation following each motion (this
   is the normal default). Select the box to inhibit the automatic
   definition of the part surface, relying instead only on AUTOPS and
   PSIS commands in the APT source file (this is the default with the
   "catia" input format). (``CIR_NO_ADJUST_PS``)

   **GOFWD Catia**: This specifies how the GO**\* continuous path motion
   commands are processed when read from an APT-like CL file in GENER.
   Clear the box to use the industry standard interpretation, which
   drives the circle or cylinder until the desired end condition is
   reached with the part or line check surface. Select the box to
   interpret the command based on the Dassault Systems document
   "Syntaxes Interpreted by APT Import", which extracts the arc data and
   end point from the CIRCLE and LINE or CYLNDR and PLANE definitions
   (this is the default with the "catia" input format).
   (``CIR_GOFWD_CATIA``)

   **PS auto PS**: This specifies how an AUTOPS command should be
   processed when read from an APT-like CL file in GENER. The industry
   standard interpretation of AUTOPS is to establish a part surface
   passing through the current tool tip position and parallel to the XY
   plane. The part surface is the tool tip contact plane when
   interpolating circles using one of the GO**\* continuous path motions
   commands. Clear the box to select the industry standard
   interpretation (this is the normal default). Select the box to
   instead establish the part surface as passing through the current
   tool tip position, but perpendicular to the tool axis (this is the
   default with the "euclid" input format). (``CIR_PS_AUTOPS``)

**APT insert file:** Specifies the name of an APT-like input file to
read and process before GENER processes the main APT input file. An
insert file will only be processed when using one of the APT-like input
formats. If this symbol is not specified, then an insert file will not
be processed. This symbol can be overridden with the GENER /insert
command line qualifier. (``INSERT``)

**Macros before:** This specifies the full path and file name of macros
to be matched before regular post-processor defined macros. This
parameter can be overridden with a qualifier on the GENER command line.
(``MBDEF``)

**Macros after**: This specifies the full path and file name of macros
to be matched after regular post-processor defined macros. This
parameter can be overridden with a qualifier on the GENER command line.
(``MADEF``)

**Words file**: Specifies a file containing additional major and minor
words and codes used by your CAM software. By default, ICAM uses the ISO
standard words with common extensions. (``WORDS``)

.. |image1| image:: ./media/c5d698c78128c39e4f7e1e6f3713f0e9b7686600.png

