Environment
===========

|image1|

This panel shows the environment variables that are recognized by ICAM
software The use of environment variables is entirely optional. They are
provided so that the software can be configured to suit particular needs
(e.g., to use a networked database file).

**Key file:** This first entry is not an environment variable. It lists
the ICAM.KEY file that is used to identify the ICAM license server
(ICAMLS).

*The following environment variables are dynamically set.*

**icam_appdata:** Environment variable dynamically set when the software
starts running. It points to the location where the main ICAM.DEF file
is located. This is the root of the application data folder. This folder
contains:

-  The main application *ICAM.DEF* file.
-  The *dwords.dat* default keywords file.
-  The *work* folder containing the *campost.dbf* database.
-  The *kit* folder containing new and customized interface kits.

**icam_lib:** Environment variable dynamically set when the software
starts running. It points to the CAM-POST installation directory where
the software is running from. This dynamic setting means that DEF file
symbols and macros can use the icam_lib environment variable to refer to
the installation directory. It also means that any setting of icam_lib
before running the software will be ignored.

**icam_bin:** Environment variable also dynamically set when the
software starts running. It defines the system type of the computer
running the software. The system type will match one of the CAM-POST
installation "bin" subdirectory names. DEF file symbols and macros can
use the icam_bin environment variable to refer to the system type. Any
setting of icam_bin before running the software will be ignored.

*The remaining environment variables are not dynamically set.*

**icam_dbf:** Environment variable defining the database file which is
used to store post-processors. When GENER is run from the Windows
command prompt, the default database is named *campost.dbf* and resides
below the application data directory in a subdirectory named *work*.
When GENER is run in an interactive mode (i.e., via the launch panel),
the default database is remembered from the last time GENER was run
interactively, unless icam_dbf is set. Do not use icam_dbf on systems
running more than one version of CAM-POST, since each version of
CAM-POST requires a different database. To use icam_dbf, set the
environment variable to the full path and file name of the
post-processor database.

**icam_sec:** Variable defining the ICAM security key file for the
client computer. CAM-POST always looks first for a security key file
named *icam.key* in the application data directory, then in the
directory pointed to by the icam_lib dynamic variable (i.e., the
CAM-POST installation directory). If the key file is not found, then
CAM-POST will look to the icam_sec environment variable, if defined, for
the full path and file name of the client computer key file.

**icam_cl:** Variable defining the default directory where input CL
files are normally found. By default, when GENER is run in an
interactive mode, the default input directory is one used when GENER was
last run. When running in a batch mode, the default input directory is
the current working directory. To use icam_cl, set the environment
variable to the directory name where your CAM system outputs its CL
files. The icam_cl setting is ignored if a path is specified with the CL
name on the GENER command line.

**icam_tap** and **icam_lst:** Variables simplifying the management of
CAM-POST GENER output files. By default, when GENER is run in an
interactive mode, all output files are created in the same directory as
the input CL file. When GENER is run in a batch mode, all output files
are created in the current working directory. The icam_tap variable
defines the default directory where GENER will write all tape files. The
icam_lst variable defines the default directory where GENER will write
the listing, log and back-plotting files. The icam_tap and icam_lst
settings will be ignored if directory paths are used for tape, listing,
log or back-plot file specifications on the GENER command line.

**icam_lce:** Variable simplifying the management of Control Emulator
CERUN output files. By default, when CERUN is run in an interactive
mode, all output files are created in the same directory as the input
MCD file. When CERUN is run in a batch mode, all output files are
created in the current working directory. The icam_lce variable defines
the default directory where CERUN will write the listing and log files.
The icam_lce setting will be ignored if directory paths are used for
listing or log file specifications on the CERUN command line.

**icam_lis:** Variable defining the directory where QUEST listing files
should be written. Listings are created when a post-processor or control
emulator is generated, or on demand via the FileÂ»Listing menu selection.
By default, QUEST writes listing files to the same directory as the one
that contains the database the listing was created from.

.. |image1| image:: ./media/b4d1663fd03287a93b7133bbace8ea8df45f4953.png

