Overview
********

The ICAM Virtual Machine (VM) simulator graphically depicts the
operation and motions of a CNC machine during post processing and MCD
simulation.

VM is integrated with **CAM-POST GENER** (the post processor), which
uses the virtual CNC machine model to detect collisions and overtravel
conditions. Collision detection can account for the effects of work
piece and tool compensation, given experimental or actual values for
compensation offsets. Collision detection is a natural part of the
look-ahead optimizations that GENER performs during path planning,
meaning that GENER can automatically choose an appropriate tool path to
avoid collisions where possible. The machine simulation can be displayed
in one of the GENER output windows, synchronized with other GENER
output. Collision detection and avoidance can be active even when the
simulation is not being show, for example, when running GENER in a
minimized state.

VM is also integrated with **CERUN** (the control emulator), which uses
the virtual CNC machine model to detect and report collisions and
overtravel conditions during MCD based machine simulation. As with
GENER, collision detection with CERUN can account for the effects of
work piece and tool compensation, given experimental or actual values
for compensation offsets. The machine simulation can be displayed in one
of the CERUN output windows, synchronized with other CERUN output.
Collision detection can be active even when the simulation is not being
show.

-  A complete machine simulation requires the following:
-  A computerized model of the machine
-  A post-processor or control emulator to drive the simulation
-  Cutting tool, holding fixture, finish part and rough stock
   definitions
-  Workpiece and tool compensation amounts

The **CNC machine model** is developed and maintained using the ICAM
**QUEST** Developer’s System. A model describes both the kinematics and
the physical characteristics of the machine. Kinematics include at a
minimum the linear and rotary axes of the machine, and if desired, other
moving components such as tool changers, pallet indexers, flexible
holding devices, doors and the like. The physical components of the
machine can be created using rudimentary design features of QUEST, or
can be imported as STL objects from any CAM system. The model designer
can define standard viewpoints and lighting arrangements to best view
the simulation. Models can also be customized using ICAM’s macro
programming facility to match special requirements of the machine.

**Post-processors** and **control emulators** are developed and
maintained using the same QUEST system used for models. When GENER (the
post-processor) controls VM, model motions reflect the post-processor’s
understanding of the state of the machine. When CERUN (the control
emulator) controls VM, model motions reflect the state of the machine as
defined by the MCD (machine control data) itself.

Models, post-processors and control emulators are all stored in a
proprietary format in an ICAM database (.dbf) file.

An accurate simulation involves more than just moving the machine
through its paces. Cutting tools and tool compensation amounts, holding
fixtures and workpiece compensation amounts, and rough stock and
finished part definitions should all be present in order to produce a
meaningful result. Once defined, this information is saved in a
verification setup (.vsw ) file named after the input file (i.e., the
CLDATA file when running GENER; or the MCD file when running CERUN).
This verification setup file can be reused on subsequent runs to quickly
reestablish the conditions necessary for the simulation.

