Console View
------------

The console view appears at the lower right portion of the window. It is
divided into 4 tabs, as follows:

   | :ref:`Help <consoleviewhelp>`
   | :ref:`Build <consoleviewbuild>`
   | :ref:`Consistency <consoleviewconsistency>`
   | :ref:`Finder <consoleviewfinder>`
   | :ref:`Diffs <consoleviewfinder>`


.. _consoleviewhelp:

Help
~~~~

|image1|

The *Help* tab provides descriptive text about the question or panel
displayed in the upper right corner of the window. You may select a link
in this window to provide a response to a question.

The *Help* tab also provide quick information and review when you single
click a database entry in the database tab or any section on the
document tab.


.. _consoleviewbuild:

Build
~~~~~

|image2|

The *Build* tab contains diagnostic message text and other information
that is output when you exercise the software. Double clicking on text
in this window will, at a minimum, bring the associated object to the
foreground if it is still loaded in memory. Double clicking on an error
message will often open the problem section for correction. A right
mouse button context menu is available in the Build tab with the
following functions:

   | *Copy*: Copies selected text to the Clipboard buffer.
   | *Clear*: Erases all text in the window. Helpful before the start of
     a new operation.
   | *Go to Error/Tag*: Same as double clicking. Brings selected item
     into the foreground
   | *Save as*: Saves text in window to named file.


.. _consoleviewconsistency:

Consistency
~~~~~~~~~~~

|image3|

The *Consistency* tab lists inconsistencies found in the post-processor
or control emulator. Select Tools»Consistency (Ctrl+Shift+G) from the
menu bar to perform a consistency check. The following checks are
performed:

-  Differences in question responses as compared to the *General
   Description/General Information* question 4 “Machine defaults”
   selection. The expected response is shown on the line within
   parentheses; the actual response is shown at the end of the line.
-  Differences in question responses as compared to the *General
   Description/General Information* question 5 “Control defaults”
   selection. The expected response is shown on the line within
   parentheses; the actual response is shown at the end of the line.
-  Inconsistencies between question responses from different sections.
   This is shown in the same way as during a Generate, with the root
   question listed first and those with inconsistent responses listed
   with a slight indent below it.
-  Out-of-date RMD actions (post processor only). When an RMD action is
   added to a post processor, the macro text associated with that action
   is added to the post along with the action identifier. The RMD
   consistency check compares the macro text stored in the post against
   the macro text of the RMD action and indicates an inconsistency if
   different. To update an RMD macro, delete the old action and replace
   it with a new one. A `Diff <#Diffs>`__ between the original and
   updated post will show the changes. Out-of-date RMD actions are also
   listed during a Generate.
-  Code inconsistencies, which are the result of two or more functions
   sharing the same G or M code. These are also listed during a
   Generate.
-  Data inconsistencies (control emulator only), which are typically
   caused by custom DATA identifiers that reference deleted registers.
   These are also listed during a Generate.

Double click on a line to review or correct the inconsistency. This
opens the appropriate section with the problematic item in focus. The F4
and Shift+F4 keys can be used to move forwards and backwards through the
list of inconsistencies. A right mouse button context menu is available
with the following functions:

   | *Copy*: Copies selected text to the Clipboard buffer.
   | *Clear*: Erases all text in the window.
   | *Go to Error/Tag*: Same as double clicking.
   | *Save as*: Saves text in window to named file.


.. _consoleviewfinder:

Finder
~~~~~~

|image4|

The *Finder* tab shows the results of searching questions for matching
text using the `Finder <../dialogs/finder.html>`__ dialog. Double click
on a result to open the appropriate section with the selected result in
focus. The F4 and Shift+F4 keys can be used to move forwards and
backwards through the list of found results. A right mouse button
context menu is available with the following functions:

   | *Copy*: Copies selected text to the Clipboard buffer.
   | *Clear*: Erases all text in the window.
   | *Go to Error/Tag*: Same as double clicking.
   | *Save as*: Saves text in window to named file.


.. _consoleviewdiffs:

Diffs
~~~~~

|image5|

The *Diffs* tab shows the results of comparing two post processors using
the `Diffs <../dialogs/diffs.html>`__ dialog. The first line in the
window lists the two files that are being compared. Each line appears
with either a left or right arrow, signifying that the text shown
belongs to the first or second file listed at the top. A bold arrow
signifies that the entry can be double clicked to open the associated
section and set the focus to the item. This can not be done when
comparing a post in the database (the arrow will not be bold). A right
mouse button context menu is available in the finder window with the
following functions:

   | *Show left*: Show only lines from the left hand file (left arrow)
   | *Show right*: Show only lines from the right hand file (right
     arrow)
   | *Show both*: Show both left and right hand lines when they differ
   | *Show diffs only*: Only show lines which are different.
   | *Use left*: On lines which are the same, show the text as found in
     the left hand file.
   | *Use right*: On lines which are the same, show the text as found in
     the right hand file.
   | *Clear*: Erases all text in the window.
   | *Go to Error/Tag*: Same as double clicking. Brings selected item
     into the foreground

.. |image1| image:: ./media/b649509ec07f1f06a7663aeab631552f3a377a60.gif
.. |image2| image:: ./media/f4ef63e264b156fb4f343e6bc7183464e439761b.gif
.. |image3| image:: ./media/e2d81316d622009f51df3560efc26704ba899e72.png
.. |image4| image:: ./media/dae1d13641a4656cbfa3f4143ff611f5fcf36820.gif
.. |image5| image:: ./media/42eef243b7d4118481e3fdf12cb47b9694d8697c.gif

