Navigator
~~~~~~~~~

The navigator is used to quickly navigate through the databases and post
processors.

   | :ref:`Database Navigator <databasenavigator>`
   | :ref:`Post Processor Navigator <postprocessornavigator>`
   | :ref:`Control Emulator Navigator <controlemulatornavigator>`

.. _databasenavigator:

Database Navigator
''''''''''''''''''

At the bottom of the navigator, click on the *Database* tab to see a
list of all open databases.

|image1|

Double click on a database name to obtain a `Database
View <workspaces/databaseview.html>`__ listing details about the post
processors in the database. Click on the +/- box to expand or contract
the list of post processors in the database. The right mouse context
menu will perform the listed actions on the database as a whole.

Double click on a post processor name to load the latest revision of the
post processor into memory. Doing so switches the navigator
automatically to the Post Processor navigation view. Click on the +/-
box to expand or contract the list of individual revisions of the post
processor. The right mouse context window on an unexpanded post entry
generally perform the listed action on all revisions as a group, where
it makes sense. A right mouse context window on an expanded post entry
performs the listed action on that specific revision of the post.

The navigator can be split into 2 views to allow you to see different
items at the same time.

.. _postprocessornavigator:

Post Processor Navigator
''''''''''''''''''''''''

At the bottom of the navigator, click on a *Post* tab to bring a post
processor into the foreground. If you leave your mouse over a post tab,
the post name will be displayed in a tooltip.

|image2|

Double clicking on the post name (identified by a tape reel symbol) or a
section name (identified by the book symbol) will expand or collapse the
entries contained under that post or section. You can click on the +/-
box to get the same effect. Use the right mouse menu *Expand/Collapse
Branch* context entry on the post name to quickly expand/collapse every
section of the post processor.

Question section that have yet to be answered or generated will appear
as blank pages in the list. Once answered, a blue page implies that the
feature has been answered and is available. A grayed out page indicates
a feature that is disabled for this particular post processor. A grayed
out page with a lock indicates a section that you are not licensed to
enter. Double click on a section name to open it for modification. The
small arrows show the last section entered and the next suggested
section.

The Post-processor Customization section is a little different from the
question sections, but follows the same principles. The icon symbols are
grayed for inactive macros and features, and dark otherwise.

.. _controlemulatornavigator:

Control Emulator Navigator
''''''''''''''''''''''''''

Working the same way as the post-processor navigator, the CE also has
its own version of the navigator.

|image3|

.. |image1| image:: ./media/7460085af0e881a22f3055d198e55156f438b36c.gif
.. |image2| image:: ./media/5f83d6b3b6d0e91f9ff9cd150ebaaa73cebed765.gif
.. |image3| image:: ./media/9b9e93433c6e93b8aa632917a81466452a81837c.gif

