Welcome to GENER Help
=====================

The CAM-POST post-processor tape generator “GENER” provides the
capability to post-process a center line data file (called CLDATA or CL
for short), which has been created by a CAM system.

GENER does not require that the MACHIN/*postname,n* statement specifying
the post-processor name be present in the CL line. Instead, the desired
post-processor can be selected at the start of GENER processing.

Once the tool path (i.e., CL file) is ready, it is time to convert the
instructions to the format required by your NC machine. This machine
specific format is sometimes called *tape code* or *NC tape*, which
refers to the original 8-track paper (mylar) tape format used to
transfer programs to the NC machine. It is now more commonly referred to
as the NC control program, or just NC program. CAM-POST GENER is the
module that makes this transformation.

GENER requires the name of the file containing the tool path data, and
the name of the post-processor to use to make the transformation. One
post-processor is required for each NC machine or group of identical
machines. Additional post-processors can be created for specialized
purposes (e.g., a post-processor for foam program prove-out might adjust
the spindle and feed and omit coolant). CAM-POST comes pre-configured to
run all of the more popular controllers, so you can easily create a
post-processor to see how things work without actually having to go into
the details.

|image1|

--------------

(c) Copyright 1983 - 2020 ICAM Technologies Corporation. All rights
reserved. This notice is intended as a precaution against inadvertent
publication and does not imply publication or any waiver of
confidentiality. The years included in this notice are the years of
creation of the work.

This software has been provided pursuant to a software license agreement
containing restrictions on its use. The software contains valuable trade
secrets and proprietary information of ICAM Technologies Corporation and
is protected by copyright law. It may not be copied or distributed in
any form or medium, disclosed to third parties, or used in any manner
not provided for in the software license agreement except with written,
prior approval from ICAM Technologies Corporation.

.. |image1| image:: ./media/4ede6213bceac6245d4b13b63ceb2983a27431b0.png

